---
author: dakry
date: '2007-05-02 14:38:36'
layout: post
slug: apartment-living-pt-2
status: private
title: Apartment Living pt 2
wordpress_id: '6'
published: false
categories:
- Apartment Living
---

Introducing Chris - Oliver's roommate and partner in noise. Chris is a 22 year
old business major who grew up in east side Portland. Apparently an area of
town known for its noise because to Chris noisy neighbors is an acceptable
part of life. Chris is roughly 6'2", over weight, Caucasian male, smokes, and
has an ankle brace that restricts when he can legally leave the apartment. He
is commonly found wearing his favorite pair of red shorts and a blue and black
Northface fleece. He has a girlfriend who he cares very much about and who
makes a lot of money. Chris doesn't talk like a goofy wigga like his roommate
does, instead he talks extremely slowly. Compared to Oliver, Chris is a
fucking genius. If it weren't for the circumstances Chris would be a socially
acceptable individual.

Unfortunately due to his circumstances and limited mobility his favorite place
to be is smoking outside his door, directly outside my window.

Chris and Oliver love to talk. I used to think it was only when Chris was
smoking, but no - they talk constantly. If you are anywhere in the apartment
complex you can hear them babbling away about rap and sports and the hardships
of life. It just so happens to be the worst directly outside my window.

Chris's relationship with Oliver is that of the wise, worldly elder. Chris
knows facts about every sport and just about every subject Oliver would want
to discuss.

Chris loves his girlfriend. Whenever something remotely scary happens in the
world Chris is immediately on the phone warning his girlfriend about the
potential of such an event occurring in Eugene and instructing her on how she
should avoid such situations. When some guy started shooting people up in an
office, he was telling his girl how to barricade herself and hide.

Unfortunately for Chris, his lady likes to get out every now and then. Since
Chris is restricted to his home in the evening his can't join her on these
adventures about town. During these nights I get to listen to the eventual
phone call that takes place where Chris balls his eyes out professing his love
and expounding on the hardships of his existence. This happens more times than
you would think.

Chris turns that table occasionally. Some nights his girlfriend want his
attention but he doesn't want hers. On these nights his girl will pound on his
door and cry her eyes out for hours on end trying to get Chris to even
acknowledge her existence. A part of me loves these times because that means I
don't have to have those two chatting outside my window, but then I realize
that there is a girl wailing outside my window trying to break down the
apartment door.

In the past my experiences with Chris have been amicable in comparison to that
of with Oliver. On one occasion did I really anger him. It was Saturday, I was
in bed being nursed back to health from a nasty bout of food poisoning, when
Chris and Oliver decided to watch the game. I couldn't get up from bed. I
could barely take a drink of water let alone keep it in my stomach. The
slightest sound destroyed me. So when Oliver and Chris decided to have an
excited conversation about the upcoming game, my girlfriend asked them to
quiet down. Eventually they did.

Remember that "Woooo!"ing that Oliver was so fond of? The frequency of such
act had diminished after all the complaints the Oliver had received. Well
apparently on this day Chris decided that he was jealous of Oliver and decided
to show his excitement about the current game by doing that constantly. I had
had enough and called the cops and reported the obscene sound levels. I
mentioned the repeated annoyances that my neighbors made and that we had
repeatedly asked them to stop. A couple hours later a cop arrived and issued
Chris a $700 noise violation.

