---
author: dakry
date: '2007-08-19 12:10:19'
layout: post
slug: getting-the-best-buy-from-best-buy
status: private
title: Getting the best buy from Best Buy
wordpress_id: '31'
categories:
- technology
---

I have wanted to get an HDTV for a while now. My 24" dell has served that duty
for a while, but the new apartment really encouraged something more. Initially
I had planned on waiting till December to make a purchase because the prices
of HDTVs have been dropping a lot. Almost $100 a month depending on where you
look. My friend Brett, who again lives right next store to me, has the same
layout and was hit with the same notion.

I think the bug really bit Brett when I sent him a link to a 37" Westinghouse.
It was cheap, and old, and refurbished, but it opened up his eyes to the fact
that he can use a tv that big as a 1080p monitor. From there he couldn't help
himself but to check prices and find out whats best for him. He had settled on
one model, I had settled on another - cheaper model. So armed with the
knowledge the the current state of the HDTV market, we decided to see what we
could get around town.

At first Brett wasn't convinced that B&M stores were the way to go, as you can
get amazing deals online. But buying from a store makes returning the tv much
easier in case it is defected, additionally you get a better idea of the
picture quality and can pick it up from the store instead of waiting for it to
be delivered. I had read several stories about how guys went into Best Buy for
weeks to eye models and befriend the managers so they could save a couple
hundred on a set. So I knew it was possible to negotiate the price to an
extent.

Our plan was different though, we were going in with the simple strategy where
whoever was selling the tvs would have to decide between selling two HDTVs or
zero. You either dealt with both of us, or we walked out and you didn't sell
anything. This made things pretty remarkable.

When we walked into Best Buy I could feel that the sales dudes knew what we
were up to. One guy looked at us 5 times. Each time he would run away and find
another customer rather than help us. Finally they sent a girl from appliances
to help us out. We explained what we were doing right of the bat, and I could
tell she was nervous. She was honest though and made it clear that she does
not make commission on sales. The big thing she said though was that typically
customers don't walk in knowing what they want and the prices they expect to
pay like we did, so we knew we had a good advantage.

The best Best Buy can typically do is price match stores that are near. So we
started with my tv. Initially I had my eye on a Sharp Aquos 42" which is raved
about a lot on the interwebs. The price Best Buy had was around $1700. First
we got a Sears rep to confirm that they had it for $1499 with a $150 discount
if you sign up for a card. So Best Buy matched the $1350 price. Great. Best of
all though they offered a 0% interest, no payments until 2009 financing. I
don't typically promote debt, I believe in not making purchases you can't
afford. But I believe you can leverage debt. Being able to keep my money is a
bank account that generates interest, or paying over time at no penalty makes
sense. So for this reason alone I had determined that I would be walking out
of Best Buy that day with a tv.

Next on to Brett's tv. He wanted a Samsung LN-T4661F - which is a 46" 1080p
lcd - one of the best reviewed hdtvs online. The price though was over a $1000
more than the 42" Sharp before price matching. The picture though was
noticeably better. The colors were much more vibrant and detailed. But not at
that price. So we got Best Buy to try and price match. First they called
around and managed to find it for a couple hundred less. That seemed
reasonable. You could get it for that price with shipping online but we wanted
to see if we could do better so we walked out and went to the local video only
store to see if they could drive a better bargain.

At the smaller store we were greeted by a guy who we had talked to earlier on
a phone when we were trying to get an idea of what the prices were on tvs. So
he knew our game plan ahead of time and was willing to play. The first thing I
did was grab a shot of the offered price with my phone - which was much lower
than what Best Buy was offering. The thing that impressed me most about this
guy is that he carried around a little piece of paper that showed all the
current market prices for the tvs. So he was right away able to determine a
price that was much lower than any other place, even online. It was around
$150 less than the asking price. He also offered the original price with a
free stand. Unfortunately he wasn't willing to bargain much more beyond that
and couldn't compete with Best Buy's financing so we decided to pull one of
the better negotiating tricks - we walked out. Amazingly enough the guy didn't
follow.

So back to Best Buy we went armed with this new incredibly low price, and a
picture to prove it. We found our friendly sales girl and told her the price.
She balked. It was $500 less than the asking price. She didn't believe it
until I showed her the picture. To make it sweeter though I told her that if
she agreed to do it I would buy the very same tv. At that price and with the
financing it was worth it to me to get the more expensive, but noticeably
better tv. After trying to pitch us on buying additional accessories and
warranties, she caved and agreed to the price. Home free right?

On to check out, she was incredibly nervous but knew that if she didn't make
the sale at that price we would be getting it from some place else. She tried
to pitch us on other things but could tell that we were not at all interested
in buying a warranty or paying a 500% premium on accessories which can be
found only for dirt cheap at monoprice.com.

Here is the deal with warranties. This is how Best Buy makes their money, they
are willing to price match anyone as they are usually able to sell warranties
on fear alone. They talk about how a repair costs several hundreds of dollars
and how the manufacturer will only cover the most basic of defects. What they
don't cover though is silly stuff like damaging your display accidentally
while cleaning. If the stuff that they do cover were really an issue then
there would be so many class action lawsuits against television manufactures.
That obviously isn't the case because these televisions are built with extreme
quality. So Best Buy is betting that the majority of warranties they sell will
never be used. It is like free money to them. Enough about warranties though,
back to the sale.

Before the sale could be completed the girl's manager had to approve it. This
guy was obviously a seasoned sales dude. Immediately he asked her if she was
selling us warranties, I piped in to say that she had done an excellent job of
pitching it to us and we were considering them to hopefully save her some pain
later. He ignored it though and went into his spiel. He buys warranties on
everything. From his plasma, to his appliances to his portable dvd player -
well not that one he just replaces it when it dies. As he talked I couldn't
help but notice his ear lobes were about an inch long and drooped and swayed
as he talked. This helped me cope with his bullshit. Once he was done, and
after a few questionable looks at our sales girl, he approved the sale.

We decided to wait till the next day to bring the tvs home. We came in a car
and they didn't deliver. The next day though we ran into the same girl who
related about how the home theater department was berated pretty hard by
management that morning because of the sale she made. As I was waiting for
them to get my tv from the back I overheard tow junior sales dudes looking
over hdmi cables and wondering why they cost so much and what exactly they
did. Even they thought Best Buy was full of shit.

In total we saved over $1000 between the two of us and now each have an
incredibly stunning tv in our apartment.

