---
author: dakry
date: '2007-07-16 17:05:08'
layout: post
slug: sprint-customer-service-is-horrible
status: private
title: Sprint Customer Service is Horrible
wordpress_id: '27'
published: false
categories:
- technology
---

Sprint sales reps are awesome. They have clear voices and are easy to
communicate with. They are great at selling phones. Beyond that - Fuck Sprint.

Today my Moto Q died. Thankfully it was the last day of my 30 day trial
period. So I called Sprint to send back my existing phone and to get a
different phone since I was tired of dealing with undependable phones.

It was relatively easy to get a rep who was able to print out a label for me
to return my phone. From there it was nothing but pain.

I want to get the Mogul by HTC. They managed to start selling it the day after
I originally ordered my Moto Q. It is another windows mobile phone only its
WM6 and a huge improvement over the other phones offered at the time. The
first rep I got barely spoke english and was actually trying to sell me the
phone. He started rattling off phone features "umm it has mp3, it has email,
it is good phone." Keep in mind I was the one who told him the Mogul is the
phone I wanted to order. Then he told me I would have to pay full retail for
it. Then he hung up. WTF.

While on hold the office phone I was on managed to run out of juice but
magically my Moto Q managed to boot again. Apparently this is a common error
with Moto Qs.

A few more attempts at getting through only to be given 3 different automated
responses that all resulted in the number I was trying to call being down.

I once got through to a rep who wanted to forward me to the very same number -
which of course ended up in nothing again.I call sales again in hopes of
actually talking to someone who speaks english and get this girl. I explain
how the other number is down so she puts me on hold and waits for the number
to connect while I am on hold. Every 2-3 minutes she picks up and asks if I
would like to be on hold some more or hang up. After 1 hour they changed the
classical song to one that was much louder - this almost made me want to hang
up. 15 minutes more of this and I finally get through to a girl who sounds
Mexican. The first thing I do is try to take it off speaker phone so I can
actually talk to her... and I hang up the phone on accident.

At this point I am pissed. I immediately try and call the number I was trying
to connect with and was greeted by an automated voice saying the system was
down. So then I call back sales again and amazingly get a guy rep (first time
ever). I explain to him my situation and he actually does what everyone else
was transferring me to other people to do. The gist: in order to get a
different phone I have to send back my current phone and then order a new
phone. Otherwise I have to buy a full retail phone. So after numerous calls
and forwards and being on hold for most of the morning I get told something
that should have been answered by the first dude I talked to.

Fuck You Sprint customer service. But thanks dude who was able to actually be
helpful.

