---
author: dakry
date: '2007-05-02 13:46:32'
layout: post
slug: apartment-living
status: private
title: Apartment Living
wordpress_id: '5'
published: false
categories:
- Apartment Living
---

The place I live currently used to be the ideal apartment. Prior to living
here a good friend of mine lived there for 2 years, so I pretty much inherited
the place when he moved out. Its located near the river bike path which gives
me easy access for runs and allows me to get to work with minimal traffic.
Additionally it has a view of the river, is a couple blocks away from a
grocery store and a is few minutes away from the joys of campus. Combined with
cheap rent it didn't matter that the place was a dump because it was enough
for a young guy who simply needed four walls and roof to get by.

Aside from the occasional bum digging through the trash and the close
proximity to the railroad tracks and passing trains - the place was ideal.

Unfortunately 7 months ago this utopia changed. My good neighbors who I saw
maybe twice while I lived there, but never heard, decided to move out. The
very day that the new guys moved in I knew they would be trouble. It began
with what is normally a very quiet apartment complex being rocked by rap
music. Nineteen year old Oliver, a skinny, goofy looking "wigga" announced his
arrival to my quiet abode by annoying everyone who lives there. Since being my
neighbor Oliver has been fired from several jobs for reasons he doesn't seem
to understand, and has gotten drunk and/or stoned on more occasions than I can
recount.

To really understand why this is a problem you need to get a feeling for the
layout of the apartment. Directly outside my door is the door to a good friend
of mine - I have known the guy for over 11 years and we work together. He used
to live where I currently live and loved the place so much that when he
returned from a trip abroad he decided to grab the unit right next to mine. We
had planned on building some kind of structure to link our doorways together
to facilitate the constant traffic between our two abodes but these plans
changed as a result of our new neighbors. Directly outside our windows is
Oliver and his roommate Chris's front door. For whatever reason Oliver and
Chris love to talk outside their apartment, where every single word that they
utter can be heard clearly from anywhere in my apartment and most prominently
inside my room.

At first they were a nuisance. They would blast music with their door open. We
would counter by asking them to at least close the door if they insisted on
blasting "west coast bass" as they described it. Then they decided that it
would be OK to talk on their phones early in the morning and extremely late at
night directly outside our bedroom windows. What made this even worse is that
this happened during a time of year when our windows would normally be open so
it was like being awakened by someone talking directly into your ear.

You cannot understand the joys of listening to this dorky kid sweet talk a
"honey" with words like "chillass," as in "you are a chillass girl" directly
outside your window without experiencing it for yourself.

One night, while he was clearly drunk, Oliver tried to sweet talk a chillass
girl by recounting how hard his life had been up until that point since he
apparently killed a girl with a car. That certainly explains why he doesn't
drive. How inconvenient.

When I mentioned how annoying it was to have a guy talking outside your
bedroom window I was called a "square." Yeah that hurt.

At some point during the year Oliver decided to show he excitement by
screaming "Woooo!" at the top of his lungs. This could be heard regardless of
whether his door was closed, whether he was on the other side of his apartment
or if he was directly outside my window - which is when it usually occurred. A
few months ago I thought the place would become happy again. There was a ton
of pounding on Oliver's door and a bunch of yelling. I rushed outside ready to
see some rumbling and instead saw that a neighbor whom I had never met was
confronting Oliver. At that moment I was ecstatic. Apparently the apartment
complex was coming together to get these guys to shut up. It was awesome to
see this tiny buff dude shout out Oliver - a kid who has apparently had his
ass kicked numerous times for reasons unknown to himself. The dude was tired
of being awakened at odd hours during the night to "Wooo!"ing when he had to
get up at 4am. Finally they would understand how annoying they were to
everyone living there. Every single surrounding unit had complained to
management about Oliver's "Wooo!"ing and management had actually threatened to
boot him out if he didn't stop.

How inconvenient for a guy who is just trying to "go to school and make money"
that his neighbors are complaining.

