---
author: dakry
date: '2007-12-27 03:11:38'
layout: post
slug: gaming-in-2007
status: private
title: Gaming in 2007
wordpress_id: '41'
---

This has been one of the best years in gaming. Not since 1998 has there been
such an all round great year. In 1998 gamers saw the releases of Half-Life,
Starcraft, Tribes, Baldur's Gate, Unreal, and Thief: The Dark Project. All
games which strongly inspired some of the top games released this year.

This isn't going to be a top 10 list. This is going to be a general review of
games that stood out for me this year.

There was a whole lot of games that I didn't get a chance to play, and not all
the games that I did play did I get to finish. But what I did get to play was
extremely entertaining.

I have long considered myself to be a PC gamer. Back when the other kids had
their super nintendos and segas I had my PC. Even when everyone moved on to
the playstation 2 and the original xbox, I was a die hard PC gamer. Despite
the large quantity of quality games on those consoles and I didn't get to play
any of them until long after their respective systems had gone out of style.
This year though was strange in that I had a PC that was capable of playing
every game that came out and also had both _next-gen _consoles. So the _depth_
of gaming that I had this year is staggering.

I honestly don't think I have a game of the year. I do have some stand outs
that I will be playing and thinking about long into the next year.

## World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/7/7c/646436b.jpg/256px-
646436b.jpg)

Towards the end of last year I really got back into WoW. I hadn't played the
game in a while but got back briefly to beta test the expansion. It was enough
to give a general idea what to expect when the expansion officially came out.

Out of everything I played this year though this probably ate up the most of
my time. I have yet to go on a _raid_ in the expansion beyond instances, and
building on my experience in the beta I got to level 70 relatively fast.

Once that happened though my interest in the game quickly waned. I picked it
up a bit a couple months ago as a harmless distraction, but that didn't last
very long. For now I am basically _done_ with WoW. But it was nice to see how
much Blizzard has _perfected_ the style of MMO that gamers first glimpsed in
Everquest back when it was first shown in 1998.

## God of War 2

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/3/3c/Gow2-2.jpg/260px-
Gow2-2.jpg)

My ex-roommate got into gaming because of the original God of War. He went
from despising gaming to playing through GoW several times. I have yet to beat
either but I can appreciate it. GoW2 is considered to be one of the last great
games of that generation. The PS2 has seen some other noteworthy titles this
year but GoW2 is outstanding enough that it could have easily been considered
a _next-gen_ title.

The graphics of GoW2 compared to a lot of the other titles coming out for the
newer titles were outstanding. It easily looked better than anything on the
PS3 at the time. This was the first title that I was really hyped for. Enough
for me to want to go out and buy a PS2 to play it. I ended up not buying one
though and got a PS3 instead so that I would have access to future titles.

## Final Fantasy 12

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/42/Ffxiicase.jpg/255px-
Ffxiicase.jpg)

This is one of the first games that I picked up for my PS3. Sure it came out
towards the end of 2006 but its fantastic. It plays out like a single player
MMO. I have yet to finish it though as I easily got distracted by other games.
But it did make me hungry for what Square Enix has in store for their next
Final Fantasy game. The graphics are amazing for what it is, but still it is
noticeably dated despite the PS3's ability to upscale emulated games.

## Shadow of the Colossus

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/b/bf/Sotc_boxart.jpg/256px-
Sotc_boxart.jpg)

This is another title that I got when I picked up my PS3. This game made me
say _Holy Shit_ quite a few times. The scale and graphics are amazing. The
developer managed to push the system like nothing else. It is such a beautiful
game, both to watch and play.

It is such a simple game - you ride around, find a giant, climb up it, and
kill it. Rinse and Repeat. But the way that it is executed blew me away.

The fact that developer _Team Ico_ is signed on to exclusively make games for
the PS3 is almost reason enough to own the system.

## Katarmari Damacy

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/a/aa/KatamariDamacybox.jpg
/250px-KatamariDamacybox.jpg)

Yeah this game is _old._ As in it came out in 2004. But since I was catching
up on must play titles from the PS2 I couldn't pass this game up. To sum it up
- this game is joy. The art is of course very basic and blocky but it is built
on such a fun concept. The music was absolutely perfect and along with the
quirky style and humor really made it a stand out game for me.

## Tekken 5 Dark Resurrection Online

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/c/cc/Tekken5dr.jpg/280px-
Tekken5dr.jpg) Aka the game with the ever expanding title.

My friends and I love fighting games. Between Tekken and Soul Calibur, there
is a whole lot of fun to be had. Tekken 5 DR is based on the PSP port of the
PS2 game. Yep it started out as a PS2 game, then was ported to the PSP and
then finally to the PS3. Initially I got this game so that I could finally get
up to speed with Tekken 5 and play against my buddies. So imagine my surprise
when I found a game that had _less _features than if I had just gone out and
bought the PS2 version. It didn't have the training feature of the original
which made it worthless to me.

Months after its release though it received an upgrade (which you had to pay
more for) that included the training mode and additionally an online mode.
This update alone sold the PS3 to my friends. It isn't perfect but when its
smooth it is amazing. Being able to play against people throughout the world
and finding out just how good you are is incredible.

I will be playing this a lot right up until Tekken 6 comes out.

This is also the first title that I have purchased from a console using the
playstation network. It was a painless experience and is the future of game
distribution.

## Heavenly Sword

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/9/9f/HS.PS3.jpg/256px-
HS.PS3.jpg)

This is the first _next-gen_ title that I really played on my PS3. I played
Motorstorm and Virtua Fighter 5 earlier in the year but neither of those
really stood out to me. Heavenly Sword is the first example of a title that
really demonstrated gameplay that wasn't really possible in previous console
generations.

Unfortunately it was a big let down for me. The cut-scenes were top notch and
parts of the game was a lot of fun, but there were so many other, better games
that came out this year that greatly over shadowed this.

## Bioshock

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/d/d7/Bioshockcoverfinalcrop
ped.jpg/256px-Bioshockcoverfinalcropped.jpg)

I was a huge fan of System Shock 2. It is one of those games that I never
finished but still look back on fondly. So when I heard that Ken Levine was
making a new game that would set to be the spiritual successor of SS2, I got
excited. At first I thought the publisher was doing the game a great
disservice. SS2 was critically acclaimed but sold horribly. So the publisher
tried to avoid repeating history by selling BioShock as a shooter, when it is
so much more. Additionally they weren't really marketing it much at all.

When it finally came out though everyone took notice. The style, themes,
graphics, sound and gameplay clicked with a lot of people. All around it is
one of the top games to come out this year and thankfully has sold remarkably
well.

## The Orange Box

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/2/23/Hltob-win-cover.jpg)

Talk about value. This is the only title that I pre-ordered this year and it
was worth every penny. Half-life was one of the games that made 1998 so good
and the Orange Box is without a doubt one of the titles that make 2007 so
good.

Episode 2 is refined greatness. Valve is an amazing studio and HL2 is one of
the greatest games ever made. Through Episodes 1 and 2 (both included in the
Orange Box) they have refined what was in HL2 and created games that are tight
and well paced. Despite its age the Source engine is looking fantastic.

Team Fortress, which started out as a mod of one of my favorite games of all
time over 10 years ago got one of the most amazing updates ever in the form of
Team Fortress 2. Rather than create a whole new game the guys at Valve took
the basic goodness that made up TF and polished and tweaked it in a way that
really makes it one of the stand out multiplayer games of 2007. The art style
alone is probably the greatest ever made, but on top of that the game is loads
of fun.

Portal began as a student project and ended as probably the greatest surprise
of 2007. With TF2 and HL2 Ep2 Valve has already delivered arguable the best
single player and multi player games of 2007. So myself and probably everyone
else saw Portal as a happy bonus. Imagine my surprise when I found 3 hours of
one of the most _perfect_ games ever made. It isn't only a puzzle game with
slick graphics. It is a _polished_ game with some of the best writing, sound
effects and music ever put in a game.

While it is unfair to call the Orange Box the game of the year because it is
made up of several different games, it is without a doubt the best gaming
packing to come out this year. Every gamer owes it to themselves to go out and
buy it.

## Halo 3

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/b/b4/Halo_3_final_boxshot.J
PG/256px-Halo_3_final_boxshot.JPG) Halo 3 is easily the most hyped game of the
year. It is the number 1 reason why I purchased a 360 and the only game I have
_ever _waited in line for. Some of my friends got in line hours before mid-
night to get their hands on a copy. I went 30 minutes before it went on sale
at Wal-mart and still had to wait in line. The next day they had stacks of
boxes at Cost-Co of all places.

It is a good game that has way above average multi player that will no doubt
be played for years to come. It isn't the best game to come out this year but
it is the best coop game to come out in a long time. It has really set the bar
for console based multi player match making. Unfortunately it is unlikely any
studio is going to be willing to put as much love into multi player as Bungie
has in the future.

## Warhawk

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/9/9a/Ps3warhawkbox.jpg
/256px-Ps3warhawkbox.jpg)

When all the kids were clamoring for Halo 3 multi player I couldn't help but
think about a multi player only title that came out a month earlier for the
PS3. I ended up buying this game on PSN to play with a buddy at work. It is
actually a whole lot of fun. At first I was turned off by the weird running
animations and wrote this game off as being a Battlefield-lite game. But what
I found was a top-notch multi player experience that was much more
entertaining than Halo 3 or Unreal Tournament 3. It is in my top 5 multi
player games this year.

## Hellgate: London

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/e/eb/Hellgate_London.jpg
/255px-Hellgate_London.jpg) This is probably the greatest disappointment for
me this year. Created by the guys who did the outrageously popular Diablo 2,
and loaded with hype, this game should have been amazing. I never got passed
the demo though. The art direction, user-interface, and game-play were all
incredibly below the standards of the game's pedigree. What should have been
one of the top games of the year was instead a buggy and uninspiring mess.

## Guitar Hero 3

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/9/93/Guitar-hero-iii-cover-
image.jpg) I hadn't planned on getting this game, but when the release came I
bought it on impulse. I had always enjoyed Guitar Hero, but never owned it. So
I was able to justify the purchase in the game because I would be investing in
future GH games.

GH3 is done by a new developer who was able to faithfully recreate the game
play of previous GH games. The set list though, while nice that they were able
to use the actual songs, wasn't nearly as entertaining as previous titles. I
haven't touched this game as much as I had hoped to, it still seems more like
work than fun for me to get better at this game.

Also it ended up being greatly out shadowed by Rock Band. Drums turned out to
be much more enjoyable for me. RB also has a much better song list and more
importantly is a better party game.

It nice to have and occasionally I play it but I consider this to be the worst
gaming related purchase this year.

## R4DS

![](http://www.r4ndsl.com/product/images/p2.jpg) There aren't any DS related
games on this list. This isn't because there weren't a shit ton of good titles
released on that platform this year, it is because once I got an R4DS I never
saw the DS again. My girlfriend has claimed the DS as her own and plays it
just about every day which leaves me zero opportunity to play it myself.

The ~$40 I paid for the R4DS has produced an incredible amount of value and is
the best gaming related purchase I have made this year.

##  Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo HD Remix

![](http://www.blogsmithmedia.com/www.joystiq.com/media/2007/04/pf2t_live.jpg)

An updated version of an old title. I got this off the PSN for the PS3 and had
a ton of fun with my girlfriend. One of the best _casual_ games that I
purchased this year.

## Crysis

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/9/96/Crysis_Boxart_Final.jp
g/256px-Crysis_Boxart_Final.jpg)

Crysis is to the industry today what Unreal was back in 1998. While it wasn't
the most fun game to come out it was without the biggest graphical powerhouse.
It was one of the few games out this year that really compelled me to finish
it. This is also the only game to come out this year that made me feel like my
computer was from 1998. I could barely play the game, which is more than most
gamers could say this year. What should been considered one of the better
games to come out this year has sold under 50,000 copies. This is at a time
when games are expected to sell in the millions to be considered successful.

It was a fun game, even if the gameplay was only marginally different from
FarCry. So is Crysis a success? Technically and as a game it shines very
brightly, and will be the graphical standard for quite a while.

## Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/7/75/R%26C_FTD_Box_Art-RP-
thumb.jpg/256px-R%26C_FTD_Box_Art-RP-thumb.jpg)

One of the casualties for me of not owning a Playstation 2 is that I never got
to play the other games in the Ratchet and Clank series. This game has a whole
lot going for it and is the best platformer that I played this year.

Visually it is one of the better looking games to come out this year and is
probably the first title that could make 360 only owners envious. It is a fun
game and I consider it probably the first _must have_ title for the PS3.

## Mass Effect

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/c/ce/Masseffect.jpg/256px-
Masseffect.jpg)

One of my early favorites for game of the year, before I had even played it.
This game was done by the company that brought us Buldar's Gate on the engine
done by the guys who did Unreal. Sporting a serious dialog system that made
character conversations as compelling as everything else in the game, which is
a huge improvement over most games of this type where I find myself skipping
through dialog or not paying attention.

The main complaint people have is of the combat, which they find lacking, but
I found it entertaining. Bioware has built a universe and filled it with
strong, compelling characters that is comparable to the Starwars universe. I
haven't even finished it yet and I am hurting for the sequel.

## Uncharted

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/f/f9/Uncharted.jpg/256px-
Uncharted.jpg)

I have yet to scratch the surface of this game but I can already tell that
this is one of the better games to come out this year. It is a combination of
Prince of Persia, Tomb Raider and Gears of War. So far it has been critically
acclaimed, but like Ratchet and Clank hasn't sold exceptionally well but it
does show the immense potential of the PS3 in the years to come.

## Assassin's Creed

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/5/52/Assassin%27s_Creed.jpg
/256px-Assassin%27s_Creed.jpg)

This is another game I figured would be a huge contender for game of the year,
unfortunately though it wasn't at all what I thought it would be. What I hoped
it would be as a combination of Thief, with the dexterity of Prince of Persia
put in an open world like Oblivion or GTA 3. What I got was a lot of similar
elements in a game that doesn't feel complete. They created this beautiful,
open ended world and didn't really give you much to do. I am a couple missions
from completing this game and find climbing buildings to be exceptional but
every other aspect of it to be lackluster.

It would have been so much more fun to be able to stealthy sneak around a huge
world - stealing and assassinating. Instead the game promotes attacking your
targets head on and the only thing you can steal are throwing knives. In many
ways Thief back in 1998 was a superior game. Hopefully in the sequel the
developers will take their time and make the game they should have made in the
first place.

## Call of Duty 4

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/b/b4/Callofduty4mwfcov.jpg
/256px-Callofduty4mwfcov.jpg) Easily the _smartest_ title to come out this
year. Infinity Ward accomplished what every other developer has struggled to
do this year. They created a stunning looking game that runs great on just
about every platform. The game is indentical and runs flawlessly on the PC,
360 and PS3. As a result they are selling nearly as many titles as Halo 3.

The single player provides some of the greatest moments I have ever had in a
FPS, but so far its the multi-player that is really gripping me. It is
probably the first FPS on a console to capture the feel of Counter Strike,
which I consider a good thing. Additionally they made it so its like an MMO
where people feel compelled to play to _level up_ and get perks and weapons.
Almost 20 hours into it and I am still having fun.

## Wii Tennis and Virtua Tennis 3

![](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/5/54/Virtuatennis3front-1-.
jpg/260px-Virtuatennis3front-1-.jpg)

Tennis games are the only sports games that I can stand to play. Virtua Tennis
3 is remarkable because it scratched an itch I have had since the very first
Virtua Tennis, which has been soothed over the years with VT 2k2 and the Top
Spin series. VT3 doesn't quite capture the feel of tennis as well as Top Spin
does but it is still the best tennis game to come out this year. That is
unless you consider Wii Tennis in that category.

Since the day we got a Wii in the office, myself and a group of guys have met
at Wii O' Clock (5pmish) to play Wii Tennis. We have taken the game to a level
that I don't think anyone else in the world has. Sure the Wii didn't come out
this year but the system is still hard to find this holiday as it was last.

It isn't quite the same as tennis. Beginners try to swing away like they are
holding a racquet but when you have played as long as we have then you will
eventually learn to take small, short twitches. I can't imagine another title
coming out for any system that will hold our attention every day like Wii
Tennis does. Next year I am looking forward to Top Spin 3.

There were obviously a lot of titles that I didn't get to play this year, but
the ones I mentioned represent how good gaming is today. There are some
excellent titles coming out next year, and if they some how manage to some how
beat this year then gamers everywhere will be the winners.

