---
author: dakry
date: '2007-05-07 18:35:55'
layout: post
slug: sampras-won-a-title
status: private
title: Sampras won a title!
wordpress_id: '9'
published: false
categories:
- tennis
---

Yeah we have heard that news a million times before over the years. What is
different is that he has been retired from tennis for almost 4 years now and
that he won a title over the weekend and that it was on clay. He did it in
Boston - along the way beat a bunch of old champions like McEnroe and Martin.

Why is this remarkable? Well apparently he is using a new racquet after using
the same exact racquet for the majority of his career. The lighter and bigger
racquet allows him to hit the ball better than he could in his prime
(according to him and the guys he beat). Whoa what does this mean!? I could
use this post to go into how pros don't use newer racquets when newer models
come out and instead use what people call "paint jobs", but I will save that
for another post. Without a doubt though Sampras refused to even paint his
racquets different colors in the past so he is actually pimping new
technology.

Sampras and Federer played once at Wimbledon in 2001. That was was passed
Sampras' prime but would still go on to win the USO the next year and Federer
wouldn't reach his stride from another couple years. Regardless the two had an
epic battle 7-6(7) 5-7 6-4 6-7(2) 7-5 with Federer winning the match. Tennis
buffs will remember this match as a passing of the torch sort of moment.
Everyone could see the potential that Federer had from that match.

Federer obviously looked up to Sampras. At the time they used the same shoes,
the same racquet and even today his service motion is very similar (same
motion for all his serves).

Last year when Sampras got tooled by Robby Ginepri in an exhibition match I
was one of the few people who didn't think Sampras had a chance to come back
and face Federer. The only reason why that match was as close as it was, is
because Ginepri made it close. Sampras's strokes were horrible and he could
barely keep a backhand in. The only thing he had was his serve and volley. He
definitely made a lot of great volleys that game, that were better than
anything you see on the pro tour today. But they weren't enough to win
matches. But wait - now he is hitting the ball cleaner than in his prime?

If you have watched Wimbledon before you will notice that by the end of the
tournament the courts are brown and dead where the players spend the most
time. When Sampras played there was a clear path to the net and around it from
all the serve and volleyers that dominated the game - Sampras included. But
the last few years this hasn't been the case and instead the majority of the
court is green except behind the baseline.

Serve and Volley is the ideal strategy for Wimbledon because the balls move so
fast and stays low on the grass surface. So by serve and volleying you speed
up the game and limit how much time your opponent can take a shot. Grass also
has a tendency to have irregular bounces making it hard to judge shots. This
is in contrast to hardcourts and clay courts where the ball bounces more and
gives players more time to focus their shots.

So the place that Sampras won so many times is dominated by a strategy that
Sampras eats for breakfast? That has got to get the guy thinking with his
current form.

> Ã¢â‚¬Å“IÃ¢â‚¬â„¢m not going to play Wimbledon again. IÃ¢â‚¬â„¢m curious how
IÃ¢â‚¬â„¢d do, especially with all the guys staying back. I always licked my
chops when I saw baselinersÃ¢â‚¬Â¦A lot of things come into play. ItÃ¢â‚¬â„¢s
a lot of work. ItÃ¢â‚¬â„¢s a daily grind. I wouldnÃ¢â‚¬â„¢t play Wimbledon
just to play. IÃ¢â‚¬â„¢d play to win. ThereÃ¢â‚¬â„¢s got to be a reason to
come back, and there isnÃ¢â‚¬â„¢t a reason. To come back for one event is
crazy.Ã¢â‚¬Â - Pete.

There are currently no strict SVers on tour at the moment who have a chance at
winning Wimbledon. Tim Henman is nearing retirement and his serve and volley
is no where near that of Sampras. Mario Ancic isn't living up to his potential
and seems to be more of baseliner these days. Taylor Dent is recovering from
surgery so who knows when he can play again. Mark Philippoussis hasn't been
competitive since getting destroyed by Federer in the 2003 final. The only
other guy to impress me - Takeo Suzuki isn't even in the top 300 and hasn't
been beyond the round of 64 at Wimbledon before. So players on tour aren't
facing the sort of SV game that Sampras can bring.

The big question that Sampras needs to answer before he can even entertain
taking on Wimbledon is his fitness. He doesn't have the fitness to play on
tour and won't have it anytime soon. But his ability to make points extremely
short on grass makes Wimbledon, more so than any other slam, a possibility.

Personally I would love to see Sampras do a best of 3 set exhibition match
again Federer to answer the "What If?" question that has been plaguing
everyone since their 2001 battle. What if Sampras in his prime faced Federer
in his prime? I am not sure but I would love to find out.

