---
author: dakry
date: '2007-09-29 00:56:53'
layout: post
slug: first-car
status: private
title: First Car
wordpress_id: '38'
---

Seventeen days after getting my license I have my first car. It is a 94 black
Honda Civic Si Hatchback.

It was pretty tempting to look at cars building up to when I was ready to get
my license, but I knew it would be pointless if I didn't actually have a
license since all I could do is look. But in the mean time I had a pretty good
understanding of what I could expect to pay for a car. For my first car I had
a few goals: 1) cheap 2) reliable 3) low mileage 4) good gas mileage. By cheap
I mean under 3k. I wanted something that wouldn't force me into having high
monthly car payments or high insurance payments. For reliable I knew I wanted
to go with an import car so either a Toyota or a Honda. I knew from experience
that Civics get good gas mileage so I wanted to look out for one of those but
for the price that I wanted and the mileage (under 100k) it was pretty hard to
find an imported car at that price range.

On my way back from tennis I ride along a street that for some reason is used
by people wanting to sell their cars. So the entire street is lined with
lunary cars that their owners probably couldn't afford payments on and old
cars that look like they belong on a scrap heap. One of these caught my eye
and was an 83 Jetta with relatively low mileage. It was a good enough price
that I stopped riding to take a look at it. Right next to it though was a very
clean looking 94 Honda Civic Hatchback and surprisingly it was listed about
half what I would expect to see a Civic of that age and mileage at (just under
120k). So I rushed home to check Craigslist to see if the car was listed. It
had just been posted.

It turns out that the girl who was selling it lived right next store to me. I
had never seen her or the car because there is a row of trees blocking our
duplexes. So I wanted to check out the car to figure out what was wrong with
it. The reason why it was so cheap is because it is a salvage title. The
driver's side door was totaled to the point that the car was deemed
unsalvageable. But this was before the current owner had ever owned the car.
The door was replaced with a perfect looking one so everything else about the
car looked great. Even the interior looked good for how old it was with no
weird smells, stains or tears.

The only problem was that the car had a manual transmission, which I haven't
driven since Brett let me drive his truck. I took my license exam and spent
most of my time driving automatics. This wasn't that big of an issue for me
though because I actually wanted a manual car in the long run because I feel
you get a better understanding of the car and are more attentive to whats
going on when you drive manual. But for the test drive purposes I wouldn't get
a whole lot out of the experience so I brought Brett along. Brett is the kind
of drivers that people consider reckless but really he has a very good
understanding of the limitations of the cars he drives. So I actually feel
perfectly safe riding with him and I knew that he would be able to tell if
there was anything wrong with the car. He took it through the rope, testing
breaking, acceleration, turning, everything. The result was that the car ran
and felt great. It definitely felt like it accelerate way faster than my
girlfriend's 99ish Civic.

Rather than buy the car outright I decided to see if I could finance it
through my credit union. I knew I could get a good rate on any loan due to my
credit history and I wanted an opportunity to build even more credit. One girl
at the bank looked at me weird when she saw how low the loan was for, but car
payments would only be around $100/month. So I was approved for the amount
easily enough at a 6% interest rate. The only issue is that the bank wanted to
see the title and the condition of the car before they would finalize the
loan. This meant having the owner of the car bring the title and the car to
the bank. The problem with this is that we both work at 9 and get off at 5,
with banks closing at 6. So in order to actually get to the bank in time we
would have to go through rush our traffic. We eventually got things sorted out
and found a branch that was close to where we lived and was able to finish the
loan.

Back at home, I was at last a car owner. Oddly enough it was the only car I
test drove but I got a great deal on it. Yeah its a salvage title but you
wouldn't know it look at it or driving it. When I first started looking at
used cars a black Honda Civic is exactly what I wanted, and some how I lucked
out and found one at an incredible price. Now would come the joys of
remembering how to drive manual.

I have driven motorcycles and gone through a motorcycle safety class so
clutches aren't entirely foreign to me. But for whatever reason I felt like a
complete idiot when I first got in the car. First of all the car wouldn't
start (didn't have the clutch all the way in), then I had to deal with
actually moving in the car. I began by driving around the neighborhood, once I
felt comfortable (and low on gas) I decided to try and go the gas station. The
first time I tried going on a major intersection I left a very nice patch of
tire on the street as I applied way more gas than I should have.

Eventually I found my way to a straight road with no traffic and practiced
stopping and going and shifting gears without stalling all over the place.
Hopefully in a week I will be good enough to be comfortable driving.

