---
author: dakry
date: '2007-09-11 15:49:29'
layout: post
slug: license
status: private
title: License
wordpress_id: '35'
---

So it took me a lot longer than other people (about 10 years longer), but I
finally got a driver's license.

Growing up it was never a priority for me. My first experience driving was
when I was around 6 years old in the family Cadillac. I managed to put the car
in neutral and roll it out of the drive way. Since then my mom would get panic
attacks whenever I drove so learning with her wasn't an option and I always
had friends who could give me rides around. Then I went off to college where I
didn't need a car. Even in Eugene it wasn't that big a priority as this is a
biker town and everything is pretty close. Still, not having a license has
been an embarrassment in the back of my mind and it is nice to finally be done
with it.

For the past year I have been driving my girlfriend around as she hates to
drive, so I was pretty confident going into the exam. I passed with only a
couple mistakes that I was able to point out before the examiner told me about
them. At least I can say that I passed my exam on the first try ;). I could
not have done it without my girlfriend's encouragement as well as the
encouragement from my friends; "What, you still don't have a license? How old
are you again?" Thanks guys. I am sure we can find something else to make fun
of now that that is out of the picture.

So now I get to go through the joys of buying a car. My goal is to find a used
japanese car for around $6-8k.

