---
author: dakry
date: '2007-07-31 01:53:52'
layout: post
slug: bye-bye-bell
status: private
title: Bye Bye Bell
wordpress_id: '28'
published: false
categories:
- Apartment Living
---

Little less than one month to go and I will be free of ever having to deal
with Bell Realty again.

I have admit over the last couple months I have been tempted to renew my
lease. My old room-mate left and got married to his childhood sweat-heart and
my neighbors from hell moved away - so I had the whole place to myself. On top
of that I got to have summer rates so the place has been dirt cheap and
probably more room than I needed.

Still I just couldn't bring myself to wanting to live here for another year.
The place really is a dump compared to what I could get elsewhere. It was a
serious spider and insect problem - the entrance looks like a dungeon. The
apartment washer and drier is always never available and is constantly a mess
from other tenants. The only thing it really has going for it is the location,
but I honestly don't think it is worth dealing with Bell any longer. Out of
the 10 units available in this apartment complex all but 3 are up for lease.
Likewise the apartment complex near by, also owned by Bell, has several units
available. Clearly people around Eugene have figured out that Bell is bad
news.

I put off looking for a new apartment until July as I figured any place I
found would not hold or wait until mid-August (when my lease ended) for me to
move in. So it wasn't until recently that Brett and I started looking for some
place. We first looked into this great little duplex neighborhood made up of
64 units. Rent was about a $130 more than what I payed currently but the
places were huge. Well worth the money, especially since they were month to
month. The only thing wrong with the place was that they were incredibly far
away from work and everything else.

The next place we looked at though was more promising. It was another duplex
near Applewood apartments and near Gold's Gym where I have been considering
getting a membership. Additionally it was close to a supermarket and a little
shopping area. It is also near a highway that leads right to work. So it was a
pretty good location over all. The duplex was about 30 more than what I
currently pay, had a deck, one car garage, a deck, a yard, a fireplace, a
washer and dryer hookup, and had more room over all with a nicer layout and
appliances. Unfortunately it was only one unit and Brett wasn't into sharing a
two bedroom with me (and my girlfriend). We are both in a stage in our lives
where living alone makes sense. Thankfully there was a unit right next store
that was almost identical that was also for rent but not from the same dude.

So that day I called the Realtor that was renting the place. It was a little
bit more a month than what Brett would be paying but the place was in a lot
better condition. Best of all it would be available the same time as Brett's
unit - mid August and was month to month. Perfect. So we found two places so
close to each other in a great location and for great prices. It was almost
serendipitous. But only if we both got them.

Brett applied for the duplex with me, in case I didn't get the place I would
just take the one he was originally interested in. We filled out applications
and drove to the realtor to dropped them off. We called ahead and were told
there was a drop box to place the applications and application fees. This was
on a Friday. On Monday we called to check if they got the applications only to
find out that they didn't. Apparently there was a cleaning crew over the
weekend who picked them up. At this point neither Brett nor I were happy. I
was potentially out of $100 in application fees and we were both out a lot of
personal information that we would rather not be without.

Thankfully a phone call later the Realtor was able to find out that neither of
the applications were lost and were in the hands of the owner. Unfortunately
for some odd reason they didn't take personal checks, so we had to go in
anyway with cash.

It turned out I was the only one applying for the place so the chances of me
getting it were pretty high. So Brett backed out and committed to the other
unit. The only thing really stopping me from getting this place was getting
references from Bell. Great.

When I turned in the application I told them it was probably going to be a
hassle since I was with Bell, the girl immidiately rolled her eyes and was
like "ahh yes we know all about Bell." It took them 6 faxes, an email from me,
and a week later before Bell finally confirmed my rental history.

So today I found out that I am approved for the place and I get to move into
it on the 15th. I am actually really excited about moving out of this
apartment and into a place that is so much nicer. Thankfully my last month of
rent is dirt cheap and pro-rated so I don't feel bad about giving Bell a final
month's rent.

