---
author: dakry
date: '2007-09-03 14:51:25'
layout: post
slug: tennis-club-aka-my-second-home
status: private
title: Tennis Club aka My Second Home
wordpress_id: '33'
published: false
categories:
- tennis
---

One of the big surprises about my new apartment was it proximity to Eugene's
largest tennis club and Gold's gym. It is actually about 3 blocks from Gold's
and about 1.3 miles from Eugene Swim and Tennis Club.

Initially I had planned on getting a membership to both as I was planning on
joining a friend's plan at Gold's which was at an insanely low rate. This
didn't pan out though so it made me strongly consider just doing the tennis
club for all my fitness needs. The tennis club's weight lifting facilities and
cardio area were not nearly as good as Gold's of course, but it more than made
up for it with all the tennis courts. The main issue with this though is that
the tennis club wasn't cheap. They wanted a big sign up fee in addition to the
monthly fee. I decided to try and deal with the them and managed to talk them
down $100 from the sign up fee, so this made the tennis club much more
attractive.

I joined up on Thursday which also happened to be "men's night" where all the
guys meet to play doubles. This allowed me to see what my main competition
was. Unfortunately with labor day weekend coming up there weren't nearly as
many guys as there usually is. Most of the guys were 3.0-4.0 in skill which is
about average for club play. I was hoping for much more as I hit at a solid
4.5 level. I am comfortable saying I play at least at that level because I
used to play league tennis back in Hawaii at the 4.0 level and got some solid
wins. Since then I have improved a lot and one of my hitting partners is an
ex-tennis coach at the 4.5 level who I can stand toe-toe with in play. There
were some good guys playing at the club but no one blew me away. I played a
set with some old guys and expected to play much more but apparently they
don't usually play much more than that. Coming from 3 hour hitting sessions I
didn't get nearly the workout I wanted. I am not the fittest guy on the courts
but for the last couple of years I have been comparing my game and fitness to
the kids who play on the UO team and club. So compared to the average club
player that I saw I am in amazing shape.

A month or two ago I played doubles with this guy who was obviously pretty
good. He could paint the lines with his serve and hit every shot in the book.
My partner and I lost the first set pretty badly before we stepped it up the
second set for a solid win. The third set ended in a tie as I got a nasty
injury when the courts got a little wet - leading me to slip and lose some
skin on my hand and arm. I was impressed by the guys skill though and we
exchanged numbers hoping to play again some time.

It turns out he is a pro at the tennis club and recognized me as I was touring
the place. So his level of skill really set the bar for what I expect at the
club and it wasnt all that present at men's night.

The cardio and weight facilities are good though and I hope to form a daily
routine around them when not playing tennis. Everyone seems to be friendly and
open to new members. I have already exchanged numbers with people who have
been there for over 10 years so it should be a lot of fun. No one except the
pro seems to be as big a tennis fanatic as I am - most seem to fit the
stereotype of a club player - drinking beer while casually watching tennis
between sets.

I may seem negative about the club so far but I am actually excited about the
opportunity of being able to hit with so many other people. Once this labor
day weekend gets over I should really get a good feel for the quality of
player the club has to offer. I am also excited about being involved in a
community that loves tennis. I have been enjoying the heck out of HD tennis on
my new television for the first time. I plan on watching the finals at the
club though to enjoy it with the other club members.

