---
author: dakry
date: '2007-05-23 00:32:18'
layout: post
slug: ps3-lovin
status: private
title: PS3 Lovin
wordpress_id: '16'
published: false
categories:
- technology
---

I missed out on the last generation of consoles. I picked up a used Dreamcast
and Gamecube to play Zeldas but I completely missed out on all the great
Playstation 2 and Xbox games. There were a ton of quality games released on
those systems that I never got to play. Recently I managed to get a hold of a
Playstation 3 for basically free, so suddenly I have access to all those great
games I missed on the Playstation 2 - which was the last generation's clear
winner in the console wars. Additionally I finally get to take part in
"caring" about consoles.

I have had a lot of experience with the Xbox 360 and considered it the
superior console. From a technological perspective the PS3 is better, but the
360's slicker dev tools and online integration have always made it more
appealing both as a gamer and as a developer. The price of the PS3 has always
been a major turn off as well. Why would anyone pay $600 for a console that
had less games and less online integration? The main reasons why I jumped at
the opportunity to get a PS3 was the chance to having a blu-ray player and the
chance to play old PS2 games. But now that I have one I see its much more.

It is nice being in a position where I don't have to be a fanboi who roots for
one console over the other. It puts me in a position to see each console's
merits for what they are.

![](http://msnbcmedia3.msn.com/j/msnbc/Components/Photos/061115/061115_playsta
tion3_vlg_1p.widec.jpg)

The first thing that really stood out to me is the PS3's slick piano black
finish. It is damn sexy. Then I fired it up and found out that it operated
very quietly and had built in Wifi. In minutes I was connected to my network
and was able to access sony's free online network. I was able to download
trailers, demos and games with little effort. This is in contrast to having to
buy additional components to use Wifi with the 360.

I have never been a fan of the 360's interface. It's pretty, but from a
usability perspective it always seemed very clunky and slow to me. I think it
was actually initially designed by a local flash company here in Eugene, which
is cool but doesn't make it suck less. By comparison the PS3's interface can
be considered minimalists (which is ironic since the PS3's OS is considerably
larger than the 360s). All the categories are represented by clean icons that
I can quickly navigate to find exactly what I need. I don't like the fact that
every time you access the 360's interface from a game or want to change
something that you have to wait for things to happen. With the PS3 it's all a
lot snappier.

So far I have played mostly PS2 games. I have been enjoying the heck out of
Final Fantasy XII and the girl and I both loved Katamari Damacy. I also picked
up Shadows of the Colossus. My "to play" list for PS2 games alone is fairly
extensive.

For PS3 games I have tried out Resistance: Fall of Man, Virtua Fighter 5, and
am getting Motorstorm soon. Resistance has gotten very little play from me and
probably won't be getting much more. I have loads of respect for Insomnia for
being able to put out a game with such a high level of polish as a launch
title, but the game itself is nothing more than a generic shooter to me, which
I don't find all that stimulating. It did give me the opportunity to
experience my first online console fps. I was able to update the game and find
a server fast enough. Once I was there though it was odd facing a bunch of
people who didn't know how to circle strafe around opponents. So I was at the
tops of the ffa matches in no time.

![](http://static.gamecrazy.com/images/games/boxart/11341.jpg)

Virtua Fighter 5 is something else. Visually it is amazing. easily the best
looking fighter I have ever seen. Virtua Fighter 2 was one of the first games
to get me interested in computer graphics. As far as the fighting system goes
- so far I am loving it. I can see it taking months before I consider myself
proficient at a single fighter, which I consider a good thing. But the problem
is there isn't anyone to fight against. I don't know of a single other person
who owns a PS3, so finding people who are able to practice the game is pretty
much impossible. Additionally Sega neglected to include online multiplayer.
Given the nature of VF5's hit detection, its understandable, but I would have
liked something. In the past versions they had a feature that allowed you to
train an AI to play in your style. So you could go to an arcade and fight
against an AI but it would be like fighting against a real player. How awesome
would it have been to be able to trade "bots" with friends online? I really
feel Sega dropped the ball with this.

The overall price of games this generation is really turning me off. So far I
have only been getting games from ebay. $40 + shipping is my limit for games
in general. Charging $60 and expecting people to shell out more for additional
content is just raping the consumer. The biggest issue I see the PS3 having is
the complete lack of games. I would consider VF5 to be the only clear standout
PS3 currently out and soon the 360 will have a port. If I was in it for PS3
games alone I would be a very sad gamer. Thankfully there are some very nice
titles coming out that makes me glad that I have the console. The big
standouts are Metal Gear Solid 4, Ninja Gaiden Sigma (I missed the original),
Final Fantasy XIII, Heavenly Sword, Uncharted: Drake's Treasure, God of War 3,
LittleBigPlanet and White Knight Story.

Something that has really peaked my interest lately is PS3's Home, which is a
Second Life like online system Sony is making to push games and content to
people. The system will be free and reminds me of Snowcrash's Metaverse. The
potential for such a system is huge.

I really like how the system doesn't restrict you into using propriety
accessories. For instance if I wanted to update the harddrive from the 60GB
one that the system comes with I can get one off the shelf. The 360 requires
you to get a specialized one that costs almost twice as much as a generic one.
Also components like headsets are just bluetooth. So I can pickup any
bluetooth headset and use it with the PS3.

The system is costing Sony a load of cash. This past quarter Sony has lost
more than ever before. Still I can't see the PS3 failing. It is a good system
and once developers learn how to harness all of its potential (and Sony is
really giving developers incentives to do so) I believe PS3 is really going to
surprise a lot of people.

Things that I like:

  * Built in Wifi
  * Clean Interface
  * Free Online network
  * Near Silent Operation
  * Slick Piano Black Finish
  * Future Potential
  * Quality non-propriety components
Things I can't stand:

  * Price of games
  * Lack of games
  * Puts out a ton of heat and uses up a lot of juice
On another note what the heck is the deal with having HD game consoles ship
without HD cables? I had to go all over town looking for a place that carried
component cables. The gamestop in the mall didn't even know what they were,
let alone have them in stock.

