---
author: dakry
date: '2007-12-21 16:43:22'
layout: post
slug: vacation-review
status: private
title: vacation review
wordpress_id: '40'
categories:
- outdoors
- photography
---

I got back into town Tuesday evening after spending a week on Oahu. I managed
to do almost everything I wanted to do with a few exceptions.

I don't think I could have picked a worse time to go on vacation. My buddy
Brett decided to come along with me and we were both exceptionally busy at
work. Thankfully we were able to accomplish much of what we needed to do
remotely, which meant putting in 4ish hours a day of work while we are
supposed to be on vacation. I can't recommend pdanet enough. I have written
about it before, but on this trip we really took advantage of it. I am all
about disconnecting every now and then, but if you need a connection anywhere
then this thing more than pays for itself. Having access to a connected laptop
definitely made the trip more enjoyable than it would have been otherwise.

The week before we got there the island had a serious wind storm that left a
lot of wreckage and toppled over trees. Thankfully the weather was nearly
perfect while we were there. It wasn't so hot that we got toasted while we
swam and the wind was enough that the heat wasn't unbearable.

We spent the first few days at my mom's place in Wahiawa near the North Shore.
I hadn't seen my mom in nearly 3 years so it was nice catching up with her and
other family. I have a whole lot of family spread out through the island. A
lot of it isn't "real" family. Much of current Hawaiian culture is a
reflection of the original Hawaiian beliefs, particularly that of communal
family. So even if someone isn't related by blood, the community sees them as
family. So in short I have more uncles and aunties and cousins that I can
count. Chances are that if I meet someone who has lived on the island their
whole life, that they know someone I know or is some how related to me.

First thing I noticed again before I even got to the island is why they call
this place the rainbow state. There were tons of rainbows. On the flight over
saw some beautiful "circular" rainbows, as well as rainbows under small
patches of clouds that had gentle showers. On one of our first drives we
caught site of a nice rainbow where you could see the ending of it.

[![](http://lh3.google.com/zacharyz/R2DOVndgPKI/AAAAAAAAA7w/ZaMWYrmRv-M/s400/I
MG_2325.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5143
337645222411426)

We visited this little island/bird refuge that a couple uncles maintain. It
was very beautiful and loaded with koi. [![](http://lh4.google.com/zacharyz/R2
DRS3dgPeI/AAAAAAAAA-0/EnPHJBqyWZg/s400/IMG_2391.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.
com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5143340896512654818) [![](http://lh5.googl
e.com/zacharyz/R2DT3HdgPyI/AAAAAAAABB0/MJT5mDpO08k/s400/IMG_2501.JPG)](http://
picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5143343718306168610) We
wanted to do some scuba diving, but the package the local place offered in
Haleiwa was for 8 hours a day, for 3 days at around $400. I didn't want to
spend my whole vacation learning to scuba dive so we opted for snorkeling gear
instead. We went to a local beach first where we caught site of some para-
surfers. I have no idea if that is what they are officially called. Its not
quite wind surfing. They have these huge kites that pull them along very fast.
It was quite the sight seeing seven all in one area and not colliding into
each other.

[![](http://lh3.google.com/zacharyz/R2DWJndgQEI/AAAAAAAABEk/AGAbQDJQq8g/s400/I
MG_2582.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5143
346235157004354)

The next day we decided we wanted better so we went over to Hanauma Bay. This
place is a huge attraction for tourists as it is filled with fish. Growing up
I remember there being so much fish here that you could see schools of them in
waves. Now though there isn't so much and all the coral is brown. Thanks
Global Warming! Additionally when we got here they charge you $5 and make you
watch a 9 minute long video about the place. Basically they pull in over a
million visitors a year, all at $5 a pop, so the place pays for itself.

[![](http://lh6.google.com/zacharyz/R2HqzHdgQSI/AAAAAAAABHc/8U0yQJMMYlI/s400/I
MG_2604.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5143
650413330841890) I managed to snorkel most of it. Much of it consisted of me
skimming along the shallower parts of it. There wasn't a whole lot to see but
it was still fun. It was filled with fat tourists who I ended up calling
"whales" who some how managed to find ways to bump into me regardless of how
remote I was from everyone else.

On Friday we checked into our room at the Hilton. My mom works there so we
were able to get a great deal on a room. What would usually cost $300 a night
ended up costing $80 for us. The room overlooked an unopened and very pretty
looking lagoon. Being able to go down to the beach and hop into 77 degree
water was very relaxing.

[![](http://lh5.google.com/zacharyz/R2OQ4PxlE1I/AAAAAAAABII/Ve6qB2xJ2Tc/s400/I
MG_2625.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5144
114495368794962)

[![](http://lh6.google.com/zacharyz/R2SMJPxlFII/AAAAAAAABMI/pO4DjX61Mes/s400/I
MG_2675.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5144
390764845143170)

[![](http://lh6.google.com/zacharyz/R2OXyfxlE9I/AAAAAAAABJU/c3C1Mb5DJgM/s400/I
MG_2652.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5144
122093165941714) One of my goals was to have some _real_ ramen while I was
here. Eugene has Toshi's Ramen, which is good but there isn't a whole lot of
variety. So i set out to find _good_ ramen while I was in Waikiki. The first
place, the probably the most recommend that I was able to find was Tenkaippin.
This place is known around the island and by tourists as one of the best ramen
places on the island. It was spendy (ended up costing $17 for my meal) but
very satisfying. It tasted amazing and the gyoza in particular was probably
the best I have had in over 10 years.

[![](http://lh6.google.com/zacharyz/R2SRTPxlFNI/AAAAAAAABM4/7KaY6SH4sEM/s400/I
MG_2690.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5144
396434201973970)

The next day I checked out a place called Ramen Nakamura which unfortunately
wasn't nearly as good. I ordered yakisoba (fried noodles) which was marginally
better than what I can get locally and the gyoza was horrible and almost under
cooked. I ended up returning to Tenkaippin on the last day I was there and got
some of their kottori ramen, which is what they are famous for. It was easily
the thickest ramen I have ever had. Very delicious.

Brett and I really wanted to do some hiking on our vacation. Basically go some
place no one else does and get lost. We rented some mopeds (a new experience
for me) and went off to Diamond Head crater. While not quite remote, it was a
fast hike and a great view.

[![](http://lh3.google.com/zacharyz/R2l0fPxlFyI/AAAAAAAABT4/0YRQcf81fl0/s400/I
MG_2746.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5145
772129406752546)

On the way down I managed to slip on a rock and dislocate my pinky when I
braced myself against a rock wall. At first I thought it was broken, but when
it went back into place without having to manually set it. It was pretty
shocking to see my finger at such an odd and extreme angle, thankfully nothing
was seriously damaged and there was only minor swelling.

Since we had the mopeds for the rest of the day we wanted to try and get a
better hike in. We saw this little squiggle on a map we got from the hotel and
headed off in the general direction to find it. We ended up going up several
hills and found this little path that was easy to miss. I didn't get the name
but it was the start to a pretty serious hike.

Much of the hike consisted of rocking along the top of a ridge. Combined with
the wind and the extreme angle of the path it got scary at times, as a misstep
could have lead to a sprained ankle or long fall down.

[![](http://lh6.google.com/zacharyz/R2lzF_xlFsI/AAAAAAAABS8/rl0l4VM4VEc/s400/I
MG_2763.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5145
770596103427778)

It wasn't an easy hike, and turned out to be a lot longer than we thought it
was going to be. Eventually the path died off and got way to muddy to proceed.
But the view and experience was amazing. People who have done Diamond Head
talk about how happy they are that they did it for the view, but compared to
how high we were, Diamond Head was tiny. [![](http://lh6.google.com/zacharyz/R
2lyP_xlFkI/AAAAAAAABRw/JAsCkglyos4/s400/IMG_2785.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google
.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5145769668390491714)

In the end it felt like we got to explore a part of the island that most
tourists don't get to see.

[![](http://lh6.google.com/zacharyz/R2ljh_xlFWI/AAAAAAAABOk/-wzLT_QzkqA/s400/I
MG_2808.JPG)](http://picasaweb.google.com/zacharyz/VacationBackHome/photo#5145
753484953720162)

On the last day I got to learn how to surf. I did it enough to know that I
wish I had started sooner as it was a lot of fun, next time I am on the island
I will do spend more time doing it. We rented some boards in Waikiki which was
loaded with tourists learning how to surf as well, so we didn't seem out of
place not knowing what we were doing.

Overall the trip was a lot of fun. I got to see lots of family, relax and read
a good book, experiment with some new photography techniques, explore some
interesting places, learn some new things, and enjoy some good food. I didn't
get to play any tennis while I was there which was surprising, and there are
still some other places I would have liked to hike to and explore, but I still
felt like I accomplished a lot on the trip.

I took a shit load of photos, many of which I uploaded every night. This was
the first trip that I have had where I had access to an ipod (great for
getting lost and wandering around), a good camera, laptop and a cellphone with
google maps. The next trip I go on I want some form of GPS. If not in the next
phone I get then hopefully a standalone unit. Google maps helped a lot but it
would have been nice to have something more accurate.

