---
author: dakry
date: '2008-03-01 18:09:24'
layout: post
slug: dslr-shopping
status: private
title: DSLR shopping
wordpress_id: '45'
categories:
- photography
---

I have decided to get into DSLR photography. Despite being relatively new to
photography, I am constantly finding myself in situations where my Point and
Shoot camera does not cut it.

My Canon S3 IS has a lot going for it:

  * Powerful Zoom and Macro ability
12-18x zoom, that can switch to a super macro mode with one button press is
very convenient and flexible.

  * Relatively Compact and Portable
While not as portable as the SD line of Canon's, compared to a DSLR my camera
is tiny.

  * Good Manual Mode
I am able to experiment with exposure and other advanced settings.

  * Swivel LCD
  * Movie Mode
  
But there are also some things that I don't like about it that are not so much
the fault of the camera but are limitation of P&S; cameras in general, which
has lead me to considering a DSLR. These limitation are:

  * Poor low light performance
This leads to noisy and blurry images while indoors or in less than perfect
lighting situations and forces you to take high ISO pictures. Most of the DSLR
cameras that I have looked at so far perform exceptionally even on the highest
ISO settings.

  * Slow Focus and Shutter speed
I will often miss a good shot because the camera took too long to focus and
take the shot. Compared to DSLR where you can take around 3 shots a second.

  * Lack of RAW output
You can get some hacked [firmware](http://chdk.wikia.com/wiki/Main_Page) that
will enable RAW support as well as a lot of other cool stuff, but it takes a
long time to save a picture and the format isn't standard.

The main factor holding me back from buying a DSLR has always been the price.
For a while it has been considerably more expensive to buy a DSLR versus a
pro-sumer P&S.; I considered it a huge investment that I was not willing to
make. What made me consider getting a DSLR is that there are now several high
quality DSLRs that can be found for the price of a newer P&S.; I paid around
$350 for my S3 IS about a year ago. Today a Nikon or Canon entry level DSLR
can be found for around $450, which is just in my price range.

The hardest part about buying a DSLR is selecting what brand to buy into. It
isn't just about buying a camera. It is also about investing in the brand's
lenses, which will most likely outlive the camera long after the camera has
become technically obsolete. My choices have come down to either a Canon or
Nikon, based mostly on the fact that these are the most popular brands for
professionals and enthusiasts. Canon is by far the most popular brand among
professional photographers, while Nikon offers comparable image quality while
being more newbie friendly.

My main resource for research has been the forums over at
[dpreview](http://www.dpreview.com). In addition to great reviews found on the
main site, the forums are very active and friendly to beginners.

While studying photography I have come to respect the work of [Ken
Rockwell](http://http://www.kenrockwell.com/). If there is anything negative
to say about Ken, it is that he is overly bias towards Nikons. With that said,
Ken [recommends](http://www.kenrockwell.com/tech/recommended-cameras.htm) the
Nikon D40 over many more costly cameras. Based on his advice what I gleaned
from the dpreview forums, I am 90% certain I will be getting a Nikon D40.

I can get a D40 today for around $470-$500, brand new, or $400 refurbished. It
comes with a kit 15-55mm lens that everyone considers to be really good. The
camera feels great in my hands and I love the build quality. My S3 IS and
Canon DSLRs that I have seen at stores feel like toys in comparison. Rockwell
constantly talks about how its a good idea to get a low cost body and spend
you money instead of quality lenses. This has tempted me to buy a refurbished
D40, but I am hesitant because for an extra $50-100 I can get the
manufacturer's warranty.

The kit lens that comes with entry level DSLRs is equivalent to about 3x zoom,
which is far less than I am used to working with. Additionally, Nikon and
Canon decided to put Image Stabilization (or Vibration Reduction) in the
lenses and not the body like I am used to. I tend to use IS as a crutch and
have become dependent on it, so my first lens purchases will be to get a lens
that has some form of IS. With Nikon, VR lenses are relatively cheap. The
closest for Canon is much more costly. Additionally Nikon has a few really
flexible lenses that are popular and inexpensive, in particular I have my eye
on the [18-200mm VR](http://www.kenrockwell.com/nikon/18200.htm) that Ken
adores so much. Canon on the other hand has a much greater variety of lenses
that can be used with its cameras.

There are two issues with the d40. The first is that the body alone can't auto
focus. Instead it relies on special lenses that can AF for it. This greatly
limits what lenses it can use AF with, so many older lenses will not be
compatible. The newer D60 has the same issue, but the more expensive (about
$300 more) D80 does not though. The second issue is that it is "only" 6
MegaPixels. For some this may be an issue. Both the D60 and D80 have around 10
MP. Something Ken points out though is that they use a very similar sensor, so
the image quality between the three cameras does not improve with the greater
MP count.

The D60 just came out, the main selling point for me is that the included kit
lens comes with VR. The lens alone costs about $200, and the D60 with the kit
lens is about $250 more than the D40 kit. I am not sure its worth it to me to
try and buy the lens by itself though as I would be paying $200 for VR alone
over the D40, which I would rather just save an invest towards a different
lens.

Another thing that complicates the matter is that Canon is releasing a new
camera in a month or two called the XSi, or 450D. It is the replacement for
Canon's incredibly popular XTi. As far as entry level DSLRs go this camera has
all the bells and whistles I would want in a camera. Bigger, brighter screen
that also supports Live View - a feature I am used to with P&S;, and that can
normally only be found on high end DSLRs. Additionally it has the highest MP
of all the entry level DSLRs. The D80 is considered the XSi's primary
competition and will actually only be $50 cheaper than the XSi's MSRP of $899,
which is still quite a bit more than I comfortable spending on a camera.

While the XSi is very attractive its existence is more important to me because
it will hopefully drive down the prices of other cameras. So while I am
relatively certain that I will be getting a Nikon D40 as my first DSLR, I am
going to try and wait for the XSi to come out and keep an eye out for better
deals.

