---
author: dakry
date: '2008-03-08 17:57:44'
layout: post
slug: i-am-weak
status: private
title: I am weak
wordpress_id: '47'
published: false
categories:
- photography
---

Ever since I settled on the idea that I was definitely going to get a DSLR I
have been doing loads of research into the type of camera that I wanted along
with what kind of lenses. When it became apparent that I spent more time in
Nikon photography forums and researching Nikon lenses then I decided it was
finally time to pull the trigger.

So what did I get?

  * Nikon D40 6.1 Megapixel Digital SLR Camera w/18-55mm f/3.5-5.6G ED II AF-S DX Zoom Nikkor Lens
I was tempted to get the body only and go with the VR lens. But based on my
experience with a super-zoom p&s; I knew I would most often find myself
towards the end of the focal range. Instead of getting the 18-55mm VR lens I
decided to put that money towards the next lens.

  * Nikon Zoom Normal-Telephoto 55-200mm f/4-5.6G ED AF-S VR DX Zoom-Nikkor Autofocus Lens
This lens is super popular and considered a great deal. This combined with the
kit lens will give me a focal range of 18-200mm. In the future I may consider
investing in the 18-200mm VR, but for now I don't mind changing lenses.

  * Nikon 50mm f/1.8D AF Nikkor Lens
This lens was a bit of a surprise. Up until the last week I hadn't even
considered such a lens. It is a prime lens so unlike what I am used to using I
can not zoom in on subjects. Instead I have to move around. Additionally due
to the limitations of the D40/D40x/D60 bodies the lens won't autofocus. So
instead I have to manual focus everything. The more I thought about this the
more it excited me. The 50mm f/1.8D is one of the cheapest lenses you can buy
yet it is known for producing exceptionally sharp images. It is also a very
quick lens and functions very well low lighting conditions compared to the two
zoom lenses I got. I am really looking forward to learning how to manually
focus shots.

I saw some really good deals on XTIs but the Canon body didn't feel as good in
my hands as the d40 did. The same goes for Pentax's cameras.

I was really tempted to get a D80 due to its built in autofocus mechnics, but
I ended up spending all together less for D40+3 lenses than I would have spent
if I had gotten the D80 body alone. Also I really liked how much lighter and
smaller the D40 is in comparison.

The D60 also came out at the end of the last month. It is currently selling
about $70 less than the original MSRP. Still at that price I couldn't justify
paying so much more on a body for features I don't really need.

