---
author: dakry
date: '2008-02-10 02:03:04'
layout: post
slug: various-levels-of-suckage
status: private
title: Various levels of suckage
published: false
wordpress_id: '42'
---

I woke up yesterday dreading the day. For whatever reason I didn't feel like
going to work or getting a workout. So I spent the morning reading the news,
drinking coffee and basically doing anything but going to work. Finally at
9:50am, about an hour later that I usually decide to go to work, I left my
apartment. Keys in hand something wasn't right... my car wasn't where it
should be. At first I figured I was just confused because my girlfriend parked
where I usually park. Nope - still no car. Without a doubt the shittiest car
on the block had been stolen, and I was the victim.

My first emotion was confusion. Yeah I drive a Civic which is one of the most
commonly stolen vehicles. But I also drive a shitty Civic especially compared
to my girlfriend's one parked right next to it. I checked with my neighbor who
was up late playing games rather than sleeping. He heard my car around 5am
that morning, and just figured I was getting an early start. I then reported
it to the cops. When an officer finally arrived she informed me that there
were a string of car thefts in the area. Moments later a patrol car went by
looking for a different stolen car.

As the officer was leaving she told me "hope you have a better day!" That is a
saying I had never heard before, but appreciated. I had my girlfriend drive me
to work after I filed the report. I didn't expect to ever see the car again
because I figured car thefts were like bike thefts in Eugene where it was
common enough and given the amount of time the car was in another state by
now. The officer though informed me that there was a 0.5% chance that they
wouldn't find the car within 10 days. I called my insurance to make sure that
I was covered for theft and then tried to get some work done.

The car isn't a big deal to me. Its cheap and covered under insurance. What
wasn't though was about $500 worth of racquets and new tennis shoes that I had
in the back. That unfortunately would not be covered by my insurance. I had in
total 3 racquets in the car. Two were old, but still worth about ~100 each.
The third I got last month and cost me around ~200. The shoes I got at the
same time and were around ~115. The night before I had contemplated storing my
2nd new racquet in my car since the strings were just about done on my other
new racquet, but thankfully I did not.

Around 3pm I got a call from the officer telling me that they found my car. It
was found in a garage some place on blocks with its wheels gone. It was being
towed now by some strangely named towing company. My first question was
whether my gear was in the back of the car or not - she didn't know. My
insurance agent throughout this whole ordeal has been helpful in informing me
what I was entitled to and hooking me up with a rental car until the my car
was either found or repaired.

The towing company refused to tow it to a tire repair place that night. They
claimed it was traffic related but I think that is bullshit. In order to get
them to release the car I would have to pay them for the initial tow job from
the "garage" and then pay them again to get it towed to a Les Schwab. Ok fine,
how bad could it be? Insurance said they would cover it so whatever. They
wanted $437, and they wanted cash. Additionally they wanted another $65 to tow
it to Les Schwab.

After work I got the cash from the bank and picked up my newly rented Dodge
Charger (girlfriend calls it an old man car, I call it a white woman car). I
found my way to the shadiest looking tow trunk company I have ever seen to see
what kind of damage was done to my car and to pay for the tow job. To assist
me in finding my car the guy who ran the place called upon the aid of a guy
they called "little man." The name suited him perfectly, he was practically a
midget and even had a name tag on that said "umpa lumpa." When we were heading
towards it Little Man pointed it out to me, I didn't recognize it without
wheels. The impact of having my car stolen didn't really hit me until the
moment I saw it sitting on blocks. Up until that moment I still had some hope
that my gear was still in the back. Nope... it was gone. Almost everything
else (like registration and insurance card) was still there. Everything except
what I wanted most to be there.

They actually used my jack and tire iron to get the wheels off. Thankfully
they didn't damage the engine or take the stereo (which never really worked).
They did take my pride though.

When I got back to the office, obviously pissed the guy asked me how bad it
was. Little Man answered for me "Oh it's bad."

That night I wasn't happy. I was angry that there wasn't anything I could have
done to prevent the theft and not really anything other than buying an alarm
system which would probably cost more than the car is worth to prevent future
theft. My door was locked, I distinctly remember checking it last night, and
there was no windows broken. I ended up waking up in the middle of the night
and not getting back to sleep until 7am. Which is about the time I was
supposed to call Les Schwab in the morning to inform them to expect the car.
Thankfully at 9am I remembered what I was supposed to do - call Les Schwab and
make sure they have room for my car.

The guys at Les Schwab immediately sounded less creepy than the guys at that
towing place did. They informed me that they could keep the car there until
Monday (when my insurance agent gets back in). And they told me what kind of
damage was done to the car. Aside from the 4 missing tires there was also some
damage done to the front frame area and to the front axle. I asked what could
have caused that sort of damage and he replied with what I suspected - most
likely it happened when the car was towed. So not only did those guys charge
me ~$500, they caused even more damage to my car than the thieves probably
did. It is entirely possible that the gentleman who stole my car caused the
damage, I will find out on Monday.

At this point I am hoping that my insurance covers all the repairs and
replacement of the tires and whatever else that needs to be done to get the
car in driving order. My deductible is $500 so assuming I don't have to pay
anymore for the car then I am out around $1000 counting the stolen tennis
gear. I still have some hope that the cops found my tennis gear and just
neglected to mention it when they were telling me about the car.

TGIF right?

