---
author: dakry
date: '2008-08-29 12:18:37'
layout: post
slug: consider-me-a-convert
status: private
title: Consider Me a Convert
wordpress_id: '50'
categories:
- tennis
tags:
- strings
- tennis
---

For as long as I have been playing tennis I have always bought the cheapest
strings. If it cost more than $10 total to get a racquet strung then I was
going to shop elsewhere. Anything more I considered superfluous - really how
big a difference is it going make?

The local tennis shop closed recently which has forced me to get my racquets
strung at my club. The club has a weird stringing pricing structure that
results in the cheapest string being about $3 cheaper than the most expensive
string. The first couples of times I opted to use their services I asked for
the cheapest more durable stuff they had - it ended up lasting about a month
for my two racquets and was barely cheaper then their most expensive stuff.

This time I went with the string that a lot of pros use - [Luxilon Big Banger
ALU Power 16L](http://www.tennis-
warehouse.com/Reviews/ALUSTR/ALUSTRReview.html). This was the string of choice
for Agassi and is still used by the majority of pros on tour. From the first
strike I could feel the difference. I had assumed that given the name this
string was all about generating power - which isn't something I care about as
I hit with a relatively heavy racquet and am more than capable of generating
my own pace. This string actually does the opposite -it's all about control.
The more control you have the freer you are to use your own power.

Towards the end of my last string job's life I was definitely getting angry
with how little control it had. In general the tighter you string your
racquets the more control you have. So since these strings were about a month
old they didn't offer much in the way of control. It felt like whenever I
connected with the ball I would have to guide and baby it over the net. With
the Luxilon the only thing I had to concentrate on was to make sure that I was
hitting well balanced shots. If I did that then the ball went where I was
aiming. Once I realized that then I was free to hit the ball with as much pace
as I could muster.

I have only had one hitting session with these new strings and I haven't
played any matches with them yet - but consider me sold. The world of quality
strings has opened to me.

update (9/4/08): I bumped into the guy who does my strings at the club
yesterday and he informed me that they were in fact out of the Luxilon strings
that I had requested. So instead he strung my racquets with [Gamma
Zo](http://www.tennis-warehouse.com/descpageACGAMMA-GZOP.html) at a discount.

Overall I am still very impressed. I find myself hitting the ball with more
pace and control than ever before and if anything I am more curious than ever
as to what better strings can do.

