---
author: dakry
date: '2008-02-19 02:10:16'
layout: post
slug: insurance-is-fun
status: private
title: Insurance is fun!
wordpress_id: '43'
---

I got my car back from the shop today.

Thanks to the wildness that is insurance I actually _profited_ from this whole
experience.

Yes, I never got my racquets back and had to drop some cash to replace some of
the gear that I lost. It took a while to even get my racquets reported on the
police report and I have no idea if anything will ever result from it. But I
was looking for an excuse to get a new tennis bag, and now I have one. It was
depressing having to buy the same exact shoes again that I bought around a
week earlier as well as another racquet.

The guys at Les Schwab were freaken awesome. Particularly the mechanic who was
helping me since day one. That shitty towing service ended up screwing up the
car's frame and the front axle while towing. When the insurance guy came to
evaluate the damages my mechanic was able to point out that the damage
definitely didn't exist prior to the theft and was able to outline all the
repairs and parts that were needed to get me back in order. When it came time
for the guy to write a check it more than covered my needs.

The under-damage couldn't be done at the tire shop, so I worked out an off the
books deal with my mechanic to get it all straighted out and have my radiator
and everything else that was hanging loose bolted down. Then he cleaned up the
car and got my stereo working again. So when all was said and done he was able
to repair all the damage and replace the wheels at much less than what the
insurance guy quoted.

The thieves really did a number to my car alarm (which I never used :/). The
alarm probably went off when they were fucking around with the engine (they
stole the oil cap) so the thieves stole my alarm fob, probably trying to turn
the thing off\. The car's battery was drained by the time the cops found it
because the alarm was constantly going. Once my mechanic had the battery
charged up the alarm blared with no way to turn it off. So my mechanic had to
disable the alarm manually. After I got the car back the first thing I did was
take it to an audio shop and had the alarm disabled. I may look into getting
another alarm system installed, the one the shop offered was $200 though.

I really missed driving the little thing after spending a bit of time driving
that middle-aged-lady-mobile. I missed being able to zip around and not
feeling like I was going to run pedestrians over who were along the side of
the street. Insurance is going to refund my towing bill (around $500) and pay
for the rental so it will be nice getting that money back.

All that is left now is to fill out some insurance paper work that needs to be
notarized at a bank and then I can put this all behind me.

