---
author: dakry
date: '2009-07-22 14:55:02'
layout: post
slug: why-grado-labs-deserves-your-money
status: publish
title: Why Grado Labs Deserves Your Money
wordpress_id: '102'
categories:
- music
- technology
---

Back in about 2003 I was really getting into listening to music. I was tired
of lame computer speakers and my gameboy headphones from 1989 were no longer
cutting it. To satisfy my desire to have clear, quality audio I got a pair of
[Grado SR-80](http://gradolabs.com/product_pages/sr80.htm) headphones. [Grado
Labs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grado_Labs) isn't as famous to the average
music enthusiast as Sennheiser or Sony but around Hi-Fi audiophiles Grado has
made a name for themselves for providing a very crisp, neutral sound that is
true to the source material.

  

[![kickin it with old school style](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3502/374648
5759_a7558de632_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/7637913@N07/3746485759/)G
rado Labs is based out of Brooklyn and is a family owned business with the
sole purpose of manufacturing quality high-end audio products and it shows.
They make a wide range of headphones going from $49 iGrado street-style
headphones all the way up to crazy $1695 PS1000. The SR-80s were about $95
when I bought them. The main selling point for me was that they offered a
sound that was comparable to headphones that cost significantly more. If your
experience with headphones is limited to the cheap white ones that came with
your ipod then you are missing out on lot of detail in your music.

  

In about 2005 my headphones died due to a loose connection in one of the
drivers - probably because of over use. After a brief attempt at repairing
them myself which resulted in a mess of solder, I gave up not wanting to risk
doing more damage. In May of 2007 I was still bummed that these great
headphones were going to waste because of a tiny wire so I decided to send a
message to Grado to see if they could repair them. Despite the fact that the
headphones were a few years old they told me to send it in to the factory.

  

Holy Crap could a company really be that cool?

  

Thanks to my laziness I wouldn't find out for another 2 years. At the
beginning of July I decided to take a chance and mailed off the headphones
along with a letter explaining my situation. I figured my options were to
either trash these headphones which were going on nearly 3 years of not being
used or to send them off to Grado where the worst that could happen is that
they would be recycled.

Well today I got an unexpected delivery in the mail from Grado. In the box
were my repaired headphones free of charge and they sound as good as they ever
have.

Thank you so much Grado!

