---
author: dakry
date: '2009-12-25 16:15:06'
layout: post
slug: goals-for-2010
status: publish
title: Seven Goals for 2010
wordpress_id: '288'
published: false
categories:
- lifestyle design
---

The past year has been a tremendous year for personal growth (of not only my
gut) and I see 2010 as the year where I execute on what I have learned. I
believe one of the best ways of holding yourself accountable for your goals is
to put them in writing. So here are mine:

  

## 1) Move to Portland.

I moved to Eugene in January of 2005 to work for GarageGames. Right about the
time of what will be my 5 year anniversary of having moved here I will be
moving to Portland where my girlfriend and I will be sharing a house with
another couple until we can find and afford a place of our own. I don't have a
job or any real prospects lined up and Portland has one of the highest rates
of unemployment in the nation, but compared to Eugene it has a heck of a lot
more going for it in just about every way that is important to us.

Coincidentally my girlfriend moved to Eugene during the same month as I did.
She completed her final term college this month and was able to finish her
Sociology degree. Remarkably, she was able to get a 4.0 (or better) in her
last 3 terms. By finishing up her degree we resolved the final reason for us
staying in Eugene. We both really adore Portland and so making the move there
is a huge step in the right direction for both of our futures.

## 2) Continue to build out my Freelancing business

One of my main reasons for moving to Portland is for the greater chance of
full-time employment, but at the same time I am not going to be waiting around
for companies to start hiring again.

The first half of the year really taught me what I value from myself and of my
professional life. It also taught me that I am pretty darn good at web
development and rekindled my love for it. My goal for the new year is to
continue getting freelance work and to _double my hourly rate_. I know
perfectly well that my current rate is actually well below what would be
considered standard for the quality of work that I do. But right now I am
concentrating on building up a portfolio of projects and work that I can use
to command the higher rate I deserve.

I registered an LLC in September and have since completed several projects
ranging from multiple Wordpress sites (including this one), Django powered
back-ends for iphone and heath care apps, and a Joomla site that required over
50 pages of content and a custom template and design. Every project has been
delivered on time and no doubt under budget.

All the projects that I have tackled so far have demonstrated expertise and
versatility in both front-and back-end web development, and my ability to
learn and adapt to changes quickly.

  

## 3) Develop a passive income of at least $1000 a month

The goal is to be able to generate enough income passively to be able to cover
my basic living expenses. The passive part is important. Passive income is
income that is generated by doing no additional work beyond the initial
investment. It happens regardless of whether you are sleeping or traveling.

The past year has shown me that I am capable of living fairly comfortably with
very little, all the while supporting my girlfriend through school and my mom
during this depression. Freelance work definitely has it highs and lows and
establishing a passive income enables me to take risks that I probably
wouldn't be able to do otherwise because I'll know that I have the freedom to
cover the necessities whether I am working or not.

I plan to do this with a combination of affiliate marketing sites as well as
ad revenue generated by some sides projects that I have in the works. This
goal will also help to facilitate goal #6.

  

## 4) Lose 20 lbs.

This goal is probably the closest I have to the typical new years resolution.
You would think that during a year where I have had the freedom to workout all
day/everyday I would be in tremendous shape. For the first half I actually was
because I basically worked-out and trained every day, but as I have focused
more on building my freelance career I have unfocused on other areas. I
haven't touched a tennis racquet or seriously gone to the gym since October.
Starting January that is going to change quite drastically and more
importantly I will be holding myself accountable.

For me, 20 lbs should be easy. At the moment I weigh around 185 lbs. My lowest
since college was in 2006 where I got down to 155 lbs. 165 will be a happy
medium for me where I won't be exceptionally lean but still be healthier
looking than I am presently.

I plan on achieving this weight loss the old fashion way - hard work and
dieting. I also plan to carefully document every workout that I do and every
food that I eat. By the end it should be clear to just about everyone what it
takes for me to lose weight.

  

## 5) Develop at least 2 personal web projects.

Blogs don't count. These are serious sites that are not done for clients and
that I will be doing both the design and development. They will serve my #3
goal. For the past year I have been developing a lot of quality ideas for
projects and 2010 will be all about executing on (some) of them.

While client work does help to sharpen my existing skills it doesn't really
help to push them in new directions. Working on these projects will help me
expand my expertise through working with new technologies.

  

## 6) Finally get my passport, travel to a foreign country, and develop a
proficiency in a second language

Some how I managed to not travel at all during the past year outside of
Oregon. Just about everyone else I know has used their time during this
depression to travel to Europe or some other continent. I was stuck here
focusing on sharpening my skills and helping my girlfriend get through her
final year of school. So one of my goals in 2010 is to finally get a passport
and to travel to another country. I am contemplating teaching English as a way
to get to either Japan or Korea.

Japan and Japanese is an obvious choice because I studied Japanese during
college and it is a place that I have always wanted to visit. To become
conversationally proficient would be possible in 6 months especially since I
am already familiar with the language and have numerous books and material on
it. Korean though would be a much greater challenge but since my girlfriend is
Korean I would have someone to personally converse with. Additionally my
girlfriend's parents live in Korea and she has been looking for a good time to
go back there to take advantage of their awesome healthcare. It would be
incredible to be able to go there and visit them.

Regardless of where I end up I plan to stay for at least 1-3 months and to
continue doing freelance work during that time.

  

## 7) Sell my car

My '94 honda civic has been through quite a lot since I got it. It has been
stolen and then nearly totaled, all while parked outside of my duplex in a
quite cul de sac. During that time it has treated me very well, but once I get
to portland I plan to relieve myself of the burden of having a car and stick
to public transportation and my bikes.

I also have a lot of other minor goals that I would like to achieve that
include stuff like becoming a better programmer, cooking more and eating
healthier, becoming a better tennis player and going on near weekly photo
trips to better my photography. Those are all general things that aren't very
measurable and living in Portland is certainly going to help with those.

The 7 goals I have mentioned are things that I want to passionately tackle
during the next year and reflect the direction that I want lead my life.

