---
author: dakry
date: '2009-07-21 00:38:30'
layout: post
slug: an-analysis-of-the-popular-cameras-on-flickr
status: private
title: An Analysis of the Popular Cameras on Flickr
published: false
wordpress_id: '85'
categories:
- photography
- technology
---

For a while now [flickr](http://www.flickr.com/) has provided the ability to
look at what [cameras](http://www.flickr.com/cameras/) are popular on their
site. These metrics are gathered when images or videos are uploaded to their
service. This has been a good way of gauging the over all popularity of
cameras among photography enthusiasts and can also serve as a way of
determining what camera to purchase.

  

### The Top Dogs

  

The top camera list have long been dominated by Canon and Nikon. Canon has
routinely been the top camera manufacture thanks to the Rebel and SD line of
cameras. While Nikon has been in 2nd place thanks to the Nikon D80 and D40.

  

Something remarkable has been happening the last year though in that the list
of top cameras has a new member - the iPhone. The king of flickr - the Canon
XTi (aka EOS 400d) is close to being dethroned by a 2-3 megapixel camera
phone.

  
[![Top Camers on Flickr](http://dakry.com/images/top_flickr_cameras.png)](http
://www.flickr.com/cameras/)

### Why This is Remarkable

  

These camera manufacturers make the bulk of their revenue with their cheaper
cameras. The high-end cameras like the Nikon D3 or Canon EOS 5d Mark II make
up a small fraction. Instead the lower end consumer cameras like the Canon SD
and Nikon Coolpix line of cameras are what bring in the money. These cameras
are cheaper to manufacture and their lower price points make them more
attractive to people who just want a simple camera.

  

### Why They Should be Afraid

  
![iphone flickr usage](http://dakry.com/images/iphone_flickr_usage.png)

DSLR users are not likely to give up using their cameras as the image quality
of the iPhone isn't anywhere near what you can achieve with even an entry
level DSLR. But if flickr's stats are any indication of the future then camera
manufacturers should be very afraid of Apple right now as the iPhone directly
competes with the lower end consumer market which make up the bulk their
sales. Why bother carrying around a point and shoot when you already have a
camera phone that allows you to directly upload to flickr after you take a
shot?

Additionally [rumors](http://news.cnet.com/8301-13579_3-10279970-37.html) have
been circulating that Apple has bought up a large batch of cheap cameras with
the intention of putting them in iPods. Can you imagine what the P&S; market
is going to be like when every person with an iPod will also have a decent
camera? It won't be pretty.

