---
author: dakry
date: '2010-06-26 09:24:48'
layout: post
slug: changes-and-upcoming-travels
status: publish
title: Changes and Upcoming Travels
wordpress_id: '505'
categories:
- lifestyle design
- travel
---

Two of my goals for this year are to finally get a passport and to work abroad
for 2 months. I wasn't one of those fortunate kids who got to tour Europe out
of college or high school. After graduating I immediately began working and
aside from a trip back to Hawaii a few years ago I haven't had the opportunity
to leave the main land - let alone go to another country.

## New Job

  
In May I was hired on by a very hot company called Unity Technologies as a web
developer. I had been contracting with them for about a month prior to being
hired. They also flew me down to San Francisco in April to be their official
photographer and to document their time at the Game Developers Conference.
Unity has long been a competitor in the middleware game engine space with a
company I used to work for - GarageGames. While GG shifted their focus over
the last few years to other [things](http://instantaction.com), Unity focused
on improving their core products and have steadily gotten better, and more
profitable over the years.

One of my requirements for working with them was that I have the freedom to
continue living in Portland, rather than move to San Francisco where their
North American office is based. We agreed that I would occasionally (about
once a month) work at the office, but the rest of the time I would be free to
work anywhere else. It has worked out for the most part except that their
_primary_ office (and where the rest of the developers work) are actually in
Copenhagen, which is about a 9 hour time difference to Portland.

## Going to Copenhagen

  
My project(s) are for the most part independent of what the rest of the
developers at Unity are working on. I focus primarily on web related projects
(store, site, etc), while the rest of the Unity is focusing on engine and tool
development. Still our paths do occasionally cross so it makes perfect sense
for me to become better acquainted with them. The solution then is to fly my
girlfriend and I over for at least a month, set us up in a hotel, and force us
to enjoy Copenhagen during the summer.

A co-worker has a vacation coming up at the end of July so they wanted to make
getting me out there a top priority so that we would have plenty of time to
work together. This gave me just the excuse I needed to get my passport, and
also gets me half way through another goal of working abroad for 2 months.

On July 6th I will be taking my first international flight to Copenhagen where
I will be working on-site for at least 3-4 weeks.

## Passport Acquired

  
I had always entertained the idea of getting a passport whenever I went to the
post office. When I finally did go that purpose though the place was packed
with people had the same idea. Thankfully I was 2nd in the line, because it
took the guy almost an hour to process me alone. We got the fastest processing
time possible and my passport arrived in just under 2 weeks.

## Beyond Copenhagen

  
I ended up getting us one way tickets to avoid having to commit to a departure
city and to keep our travels open ended. There is just way to much of Europe
that I would like to explore but I have neither the time or the money to do it
right now. We would like to see some of the near by countries like Germany,
Belgium, and the Netherlands. I also wouldn't mind being able to stay in a
single awesome city for a week and just explore the heck out of it. Either way
we have the month in Copenhagen to figure it out.

## Plans for this Site

  
My plans are to be more active on this site in terms of documenting my
experiences with traveling - beyond my photography, though I promise there
will be plenty more of that. In preparation for my trip I finally graduated
from my flimsy $35 aluminum tripod that I got years ago to a nice, light,
travel-friendly carbon fiber Manfrotto tripod.

Expect lots of panoramas and HDR like shots in the future as we tour around
Copenhagen and beyond.

