---
author: dakry
date: '2010-09-06 06:10:47'
layout: post
slug: losing-weight-with-an-iphone-5-must-have-fitness-apps
status: private
title: Losing Weight with an iPhone - 5 Must Have Fitness Apps
wordpress_id: '46'
categories:
- fitness
- technology
---

![iphone fitness
apps](http://farm5.static.flickr.com/4127/4963017072_df74617d5c_z.jpg)

Gone are the days of carrying a stopwatch and a notepad for workouts. These
days the number one tool is something many people carry with them - an iPhone.
For under $5 you can buy several apps that will make tracking your weight loss
a breeze. In this article I will cover the apps that I use on a daily basis to
track my progress and workouts.

### Lose It! (free)

  
My favorite app by far is called Lose It! which just so happens to be free so
there is no excuse for not at least giving it a try. Lose It! is my tool of
choice for tracking my calories and my workouts.

Overview of how I use it:

  * Track the calorie content of every meal that I eat.
  * Track every workout that I have.
  * Schedule 4 "motivator" alarms to remind me to eat on a regular basis.
  * Track my overall progress towards my weight goal.
  * Email me weekly reports
  * Share on facebook/twitter your exercises.
  * Share with my friends my weight loss progress and see theirs within the app.
That last feature is huge. Losing weight is way more interesting when you are
doing it with others. Watching daily/weekly progress of others is hugely
motivating.

I used to keep a journal of all my workouts and exercises. Then I used to keep
a txt document and eventually a google doc of all my progress. Using a simple
_and free!_ app to do it is so much easier.

### C25k ($2.99)

In high-school I used to run cross country. It was just something I did in
between baseball and wrestling seasons to stay in shape. It was fun to meet
with friends after school and follow whatever workout the coach decided to
use. The best I ever got was around a 19 minute 5 kilometer race (6:30 mile
pace).

Those days are long gone.

Today I dread running and am lucky to run a 10 minute mile. This is something
that I want to change with the help of a very popular beginning running
program called Couch to 5k. It is a 9 week gradual program, where you are free
to go at your own pace. The over all goal is to be able to go from never
having run - to be able to run 5 kilometers without stopping.

There are a couple of popular apps on the iPhone that help you with this
program. I chose one called C25k based on its reviews but any of them will
probably do and will run you about $3. What it provides are audio cues for
when to warmup, run, walk and cool-down. It is basically a coach in your hand
that goes at your own pace. I recently finished my 7th week of the program and
am getting to the point where I feel comfortable running for 25 minutes - in a
few weeks I hope to be able to run for 45 minutes.

I will cover why I am focusing so much on running with my diet in a future
post.

### Nike+ (free + cost of sensor)

Nike+ works in conjunction with a sensor that you put on your shoe that
measures the distance that you run. It has been around since before the iPhone
and I have been using it since the beginning because I am a stat tracking
junkie. I use it with C25k to measure my pace and track my runs.

The app itself is free and included with your iPhone or iPod Touch if you have
the sensor, which can be picked up in most running stores. It isn't the most
accurate device since it is heavily dependent on having a consistent stride
and can be a pain to properly calibrate. But it is still an excellent tool for
creating running workouts and tracking your progress.

The real meat is on the Nike+ website that saves all your runs (I have some
going back to 2007) that allows you to set personal goals (run 100 miles in a
year!) and see cute graphs of your runs.

Long after I have graduated from the C25k program I will still be using Nike+.

### 100 pushups and 200 situps ($1.99 each)

Another popular set of fitness programs are [100
pushups](http://hundredpushups.com/) and [200 sit-ups
](http://www.twohundredsitups.com/).

Both workout programs are free to follow. I urge that you visit those sites to
get an idea of what is involved but I use these apps to help track my progress
and like the C25k program - get audio cues of when to workout or cool-down. I
am a huge fan of doing body weight exercises and both of those programs are
excellent. Last year I came very close to being able to do 100 pushups in a
row and 60 sit-ups in a minute with the aid of those apps.

Combine these programs with a pull-up workout and you will be in amazing shape
without the cost of a gym membership.

### iFitness ($1.99)

iFitness is one of the top rated fitness related apps on the iPhone at 5 stars
and it is one of the best bargains too. I used to get annoyed with how often
the developer updated the app with new features. Today it is incredibly
polished and useful tool.

What it provides is a way to track workouts - how many sets, how much you
should be lifting each set, and what exercises you should be doing during the
workout. In the past I have used the [StrongLifts](http://stronglifts.com/)
workout program to great success and it was easily tracked using iFitness.

It also provides a huge encyclopedia of exercises complete with videos
demonstrating proper form. It also has weight tracking and the ability to mail
yourself workout logs.

These are the 5 apps I use to motivate myself and track my weight loss
progress. Throughout the year I will be discussing extensively how I use them
to lose 30 lbs and get a level of fitness that I am proud of.

Do you use your iPhone to achieve your desired results? If so I would love to
hear how you do it.

Thanks for reading!

