---
author: dakry
date: '2011-01-02 20:16:00'
layout: post
slug: snow-boarding
status: publish
title: Snow Boarding Mount Hood
wordpress_id: '4272'
categories:
- fitness
- photography
- travel
tags:
- panoramas
---

[![View at Mount Hood](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5245/5314864412_b8f2048f
d4_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5314864412/)

I have been living in Portland for just about a year now. One of the big draws
of Portland was how close it was to Mount Hood and we envisioned heading to
this place every weekend. In reality we didn't even go once the entire year. I
wanted to start the year off differently though and celebrate it with a snow
boarding trip. Despite the cost and the fear of it being extremely crowded
given the fresh snow and weekend it turned out to be fantastic.

All the pictures taken for this post were made with my iphone. While I would
have loved to have used my DSLR there, some times the best camera is the one
you have with you. I use an app called AutoStitch which creates a panorama
from a bunch of pictures. Most of the panoramas that I take use anywhere from
three to nine pictures.

My girlfriend and I learned how to board together a few years ago. We go very
sporadicly, so every time it feels like we have to learn the basics over
again. By the time we are finish we feel like we know what we are doing but
then the process repeats itself.

[![Snow Boarding Pro](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5201/5314866632_b7853a783
5_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5314866632/)

We don't own a 4wd vehicle so we used a bus service to get to Mount Hood. This
involves parking our car some place, then sleeping on the bus for 2 hours
while the driver deals with parking and the snow. Once there we rented the
boards and boots.

[![Tough Spot](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5001/5314268817_1c2fcae95b_z.jpg
)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5314268817/)

On my very first run my worst fear happened: I had no idea how to interpret
the route signs and some how stumbled upon a run that was way above my level.
I quickly lost momentum and found myself surrounded by trees in fresh, deep
snow. When I tried to move myself I would sink into the snow. The weather was
absolutely perfect though and I didn't really care. At one point I found
myself at the top of a very steep hill that looked very dangerous. I butt slid
around and eventually realized that I was surrounded by similar tracks.
Apparently I wasn't the only person to recently be in the same situation.
Eventually I pushed and hiked my way through the snow until I got to a clear
hill and was on my way again.

[![Cascade Express](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5049/5318278146_155bae42da_
z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5318278146/)

After spending some time around the newbie coarse I eventually became more
comfortable riding the snow board and decided to make my way up the mountain.
After taking the above picture I was entranced by the beauty of the mountain,
only to realize shortly afterwards that I was no longer holding my glove. I
glanced over my shoulder just as it hit the snow. I spent the rest of the trip
trying to memorize a route to my glove and planning how the heck I would get
down there without my glove. I opted to use my inner fleece as a glove (which
worked horribly) and had to make frequent stops to warm my hand. Shortly
before reaching it though another boarder had picked it up and deposited it at
the entrance. Thanks man!

[![View from Cascade Express at Mount Hood](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/517
0/5314269251_fe2bf10572_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/53142692
51/)

Despite worrying about my glove I couldn't help but snap the above panorama at
Cascade Express.

[![Snow Boarding Pro 2](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5245/5314865694_5eb217d
b04_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5314865694/)

Throughout the day I couldn't help but appreciate just how lucky I was to be
where I was - perfect weather and snow, tearing down a beautiful mountain. It
was an amazing way to celebrate the end of an awesome year and the beginning
of a new one.

