---
author: dakry
date: '2011-06-07 17:44:46'
layout: post
slug: summiting-mount-hood
status: publish
title: Summiting Mount Hood
wordpress_id: '5283'
categories:
- fitness
- outdoors
- photography
tags:
- '"mount hood"'
- '"nikon d90"'
- '"oregon"'
- '"sigma 10-20"'
---

[![Road to the Pearly Gates Panorama](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5316/5801
412964_e30f23d3ce_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5801412964/)

Whenever I cross the Morrison bridge on a clear day in Portland one particular
object seems to stand out on the horizon - [Mount
Hood](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mount_Hood). Hood is the highest mountain
in Oregon at 11,249 ft yet around 10,000 people a year climb it. Now every
time that I see it I can say I am one of them.

This past Thursday a good friend of mine invited me to climb it and I quickly
agreed to it. The exact conversation went like this:

**Craig**: want to climb a mountain? **me**: yes **Craig**: Hood? **me**: yep **Craig**: Have time Friday night/Saturday morning? **me**: yep  
The next day I made my way to the local REI to rent and purchase some gear (an
Ice Axe, Helmet and Head Lamp) and that night found myself in the Timberline
parking lot freezing my ass off. Joining us on the hike were two others - Jon
and Tom. Everyone but myself had climbed Hood at least once before, with Tom
having climbed it three times previously.

The first words Tom spoke after parking the car and feeling the wind and
coldness - "OK let's go back now." Maybe it was the excitement or maybe it was
because of the month I had spent working in Copenhagen during the winter, but
the cold wasn't affecting me at all. I actually stripped down to my underwear
and changed in the middle of the parking lot while everyone else huddled in
the car.

[![The Start of the Hike at Timberline](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2087/58
00822641_29c6542bff_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5800822641/)

We started the climb at 1:40am. Climbers try to Summit before the sun fully
rises as the final part of the hike can get dangerous when the snow begins to
melt and freeze. So by doing it early you attempt to avoid that danger.

The day before the hike I mentally prepared myself for it. A few years ago I
climbed [South
Sisters](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/sets/72157606145105082/) so I
had some experience with climbing. Namely that no matter what shape that I was
in physically there would come a time where I would be looking at my feet
focusing on each individual step and would have to will myself to continue on.
This happened quite often during the hike.

[![Enjoying the First Light](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3267/5800830697_87
ba4236a4_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5800830697/)

[![Chasing the Mountain Shadow](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3461/5801391942
_4fddd0eee0_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5801391942/)

Despite the strong winds we managed to completely avoid losing any gear. At
least 3 times we had a piece of equipment fly off down the mountain only to be
chased down and retrieved by Craig.

[![Enjoying the Mountain Light](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5067/5801399002
_92de94a5fd_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5801399002/)

[![Mountain Light](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2342/5801404006_a03a2a9de5_z
.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5801404006/)

One of my favorite parts of the hike was when the sun was still rising on the
other side of the mountain. This would cause the snow to melt and blow over
the peak. The sun would catch on the snow and light it up.

[![Mount Hood Panorama](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3556/5801407450_d0e713b
f9b_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5801407450/)

[![Taking a Break](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2653/5800856449_58e15b51d4_z
.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5800856449/)

We kept a pretty slow pace. The softness of the snow ment that if your footing
wasn't sure then you would be sliding back down. Repeating that over thousands
of steps is very exhausting. So we weren't surprised to see lots of teams pass
us on the way up and then back down again.

The hardest part of the hike was dealing with the strong and cold winds. Often
I would have to stop and kneel during the hike until the wind died down.

When we got past [Crater
Rock](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/2/20/Mount_Hood_Landmarks.jpg)
and on to the the [Hogsback](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/2/20/Mou
nt_Hood_Landmarks.jpg) we learned that many teams were turning back and not
completing the summit due to the weather conditions. By the time we were there
though the weather had cleared up enough that it wasn't completely insane to
make the final traversal from the [Pearly
Gates](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/2/20/Mount_Hood_Landmarks.jpg)
to the Summit.

The climb up to the Pearly Gates was one of the more difficult parts of the
hike. To accomplish this climb we needed to equip our grampons, helmets and
use our ice axes. Equipping my grampons was particularly challenging due to
the extreme snow flurries that would blow past us on the Hogsback. More than
once I had to pause and heat my hands back from numbness.

Using the ice axe and grampons was a whole new challenge for myself. It was a
slow process of planting the axe handle into the ice and using it belay
yourself while you kick your feet into solid footing. The entire time there is
the risk that you will slip and slide down uncontrollably into a crevice at
the bottom.

[![At the Pearly Gates](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5319/5801414860_9274fe7
933_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5801414860/)

8 Hours later though and we were at the top.

[![At the Summit](http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2242/5801421406_1a6464af25_z.
jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5801421406/)

[![Craig at the Summit](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5186/5800869465_32a2f80
0c0_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5800869465/)

[![Jon at the Summit](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3198/5800875441_4a5b758fb
f_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/5800875441/)

[![It is a long ways down from the Pearly Gates](http://farm4.static.flickr.co
m/3578/5800862369_07d54cf9d7_z.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/580
0862369/)

The trip back down was actually the hardest part of the hike. Coming up we
couldn't actually see how far we had to go or how high we had to climb because
of the darkness. Going down was just the opposite and the parking lot never
seemed to ever get closer while my body began to hurt more and more.

After all of it though I can now look on Hood and say to myself that I had
conquered it. Which is a pretty good feeling. It was a hard hike but I
honestly enjoyed every bit of it.

_All pictures were taken using my Nikon D90 and Sigma 10-20 lens._

