---
author: Zachary
date: '2011-08-24 16:32:23'
layout: post
slug: mount-rainier
status: publish
title: Mount Rainier
wordpress_id: '5713'
comments: true
categories:
- fitness
- outdoors
- photography
tags:
- '"canon g9"'
- '"mount rainier"'
- panoramas
---

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6062/6070827576_18a973e840_b_d.jpg Little Tahoma at Sunrise %}

## You In?

  
About 10 days ago I got an email from one of the friends I climbed Hood with
asking if I wanted to climb Rainier. It contained a short description of the
hike and ended with "It will be a miserable and wonderful experience. You in?"

{% img left http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6202/6070324037_4e46699a7a_d.jpg Rainier with Mountain Flowers %}

He honestly didn't even need to ask. Even after it was all over and I could
barely stand, when simple things like opening a beer would cause me to cramp
up, did I feel the same way as I did then - of course I was in.

I think I have reached a stage in my life where simply because something is
difficult is not reason enough not to do it. When I look back at the past year
one of the things I think of most fondly is my Summit of Hood back in June.
Whenever I am about Portland and I catch a glimpse of Hood I can't help but
feel a tremendous sense of accomplishment knowing that I conquered such a
gigantic mountain.

What better gift to myself than to be able to claim that I conquered another
mountain?

## What's Involved

The Rainier summit is at 14,411 ft compared to Hood's 11,249 ft. In several of
my shots there is a mountain called Little Tahoma that seems tiny when on the
mountain. It is actually only 100 ft smaller than Mount Hood.

This climb up Rainier is much longer than Hood was. The very last part of
Hood, where you need an ice axe to self bellet yourself is probably more
technically challenging than anything I encountered on Rainier, but beyond
that Rainier is in a different league of difficulty because of the endurance
you will need.

Rumor has it that someone went from the parking lot to the top of the mountain
and back in 5 hours. We would be traveling with a 90 liter pack filled with
gear, food and clothing, which would mean we would be traveling much slower
than he did.

{% img right http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6182/6070776640_c6f037aa21_d.jpg Inside of the Shelter at Camp Muir %}

Weight was always on my mind. None of my gear is particularly light. My pack
is about 15 years old and no where near being ideal for climbing mountains
with. I elected to leave my relatively Nikon D90 + Sigma 10-20 combo that I
adored on Hood home in exchange for a much lighter (if damaged) Canon G9. My
G9 has been through quite a bit so it is filled with dust and if I ever tried
to change its focal length it would lock up and give a lens error. I really
wish I could have spared the weight but realize that many of the shots that I
did get would not have happened if I had to fumble through my pack constantly
to retrive my camera.

The hike involves leaving early in the morning from the
Paradise parking lot with all your gear. From there you will travel roughly 4
hours to Camp Muir. The trip up was relatively easy. I was fresh and my pack
felt light. Despite the length of the hike most of the people doing it were
approaching it as a day hike - so up to Camp Muir and back.

Like many others though we were in it to go all the way. We arrived at Muir
shortly after noon and then spent the next 12 hours sleeping, filtering water
and cooking. We were really concerned about having to carry a tent so we
sprinted to Muir to make sure that we had a spot in the first come first serve
hut that is available to climbers for free.

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6067/6070260203_c0f96e8dee_b_d.jpg Camp Muir Sunset %}

We were able to get good spots and shortly after the place filled up with people who would be
waking up the same time as we did to tackle the mountain. It seems everyone
had the same plan and woke up around midnight to eat some breakfast, gear up
and head out for what would be much more difficult than the first half the
climb would be.

By the end of the climb I was so exhausted that I had to break frequently to
make the short walk to the actual summit. Without realizing it I was nearly on
the verge of tears as we celebrated the climb. Was it the hardest thing I had
ever done? Maybe. Most exhausting? Definitely.

The hardest part of the experience was definitely realizing you had to climb
all the way back down again though. Shale and sliding snow made for a really
uncomfortable trip down.

## How long does it take?

Total trip broke down to:

  * Hike to Camp Muir: 4 hours
  * Resting at Camp Muir then waking up at midnight: 12 hours
  * Hiking from Muir to Summit: 8 hours
  * From Summit back down to Muir: 5 hours
  * From Muir to the parking lot: 3 hours.
  
So in total about 32 hours.

My favorite moments were waking up in the middle of night, gazing up at a
perfectly clear star-filled sky, and seeing St Helens silhouetted by the glow
of Portland.

I also enjoyed catching the first glow of the morning sky on the mountain and
watching it change the color of the landscape.

Finally I enjoyed butt sliding the rest of the way down the mountain and
arriving at a wild flower filled mountain fed stream that meant we would have
water to drink that didn't involve melting snow.

Thanks for reading and enjoy the rest of the pictures. The rest of my shots
and video from the trip can be found at on my [flickr set](http://www.flickr.com/photos/zacharyz/sets/72157627370662365/with/6070324037/).

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6073/6070862664_17766d24b9_b_d.jpg Little Tahoma Panorama %}

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6201/6070864990_fe656c11ce_b_d.jpg Little Tahoma and the Glacier %}

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6189/6070277665_f10288fa08_b_d.jpg Rainier Sunrise %}

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6193/6070803122_7ea463fd57_b.jpg %}

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6192/6070868716_f383f0f060_b.jpg %}

{% img http://farm7.staticflickr.com/6189/6070849602_a5c37f15a0_b.jpg %}

_All pictures taken with a Canon G9_

